 .CSV File Specifications (v8)

 Paid Leave & WA Cares - Quarterly Wage Reporting
 Updated May 2024

 Use these file specifications for all wage reports and amendments for all quarters. Your .csv file can be
 created in Excel or other spreadsheet editing tools.

 Your file format must include employee date of birth and WA Cares exemption status. Download the
 .CSV Template (v8) at paidleave.wa.gov/reporting.

 Which specifications do I use?
2019 Specifications (v6)             2021 Specifications (v7)              2023 Specifications (v8)

                                     7-column format                       8-column format
6-column format
                                     Added column for WA Cares             Added column for Employee Date of
Original format
                                     Exemption                             Birth
Accepted through Sept. 30, 2023
                                     Accepted through Sept. 30, 2023       Required starting Oct. 1, 2023

 Employers of any size and employer agents (third-party administrator) with full account access can file
 quarterly wage reports using a comma separated values file (.csv). File specifications may be adjusted
 due to changes in the law, by request of a third-party, or for any other reason by the Employment
 Security Department. The (v8) specifications meet Washington state’s Paid Family and Medical Leave
 and WA Cares Fund reporting requirements.

 Data submitted in quarterly wage files must follow Chapter 50A.05 RCW, Chapter 50B.04 RCW and
 related WACs. These requirements are different than what is required for Employment Security
 Department’s Unemployment Insurance.


 More information
 Download the Employer Toolkit - Reporting and Premiums for more information about due dates, the
 submission process and making payments: paidleave.wa.gov/help-center/employers.




                                                                                         .CSV FILE SPECIFICATIONS (v8)
                                                                                                            MAY 2024
                                                                                                        Page 1 of 4
  How to format your .csv file
  Required— Your file format must include employee date of birth and WA Cares exemption status.
  Download the .CSV Template (v8) at paidleave.wa.gov/reporting or set up your own file.

  Ensure that the data is formatted correctly for each column. When formatting your .csv file, list each
  employee in a separate row with the headers in the order shown below.

SSN           LastName   FirstName   MiddleInitial   Hours    Wages      WACaresExempt(Y/N)     DOB (MMDDYYYY)
123-33-1234   Doe        John        B               1200     45322.22   Y                      01011990
034-35-4567   Smith      Jane                        4        70.00      N                      12/11/2000
143556786     O’Brian    Robert      H               1300     5000.50                           08181989


  SSN: Required.
     • Employee’s Social Security number (SSN) or Individual Tax Identification Number (ITIN).
     • 9-digit number, hyphens are optional. Format: ######### or ###-##-####.

  Last Name: Required.
      • Employee’s last name. May contain letters, spaces, hyphens, and/or apostrophes.

  First Name: Required.
      • Employee’s first name. May contain letters, spaces, hyphens, and/or apostrophes.

  Middle Initial: Optional.
     • Employee’s middle initial, if available. A single alphabetical character only.

  Hours: Required.
     • Employee’s total number of hours worked in relation to the employee’s gross reported wages
          for the quarter. If there are no hours to report enter “0”.
     • Must be a whole number. Round fractional hours up to the nearest whole number. Format: 164

  Wages: Required.
     • Employee’s total gross wages paid to them this quarter. Gross wages do not include tips.
     • Do not include employees who have zero hours and zero wages.
     • Must include a decimal mark and two decimal places. Do not include a comma. Format: 1234.00

  WA Cares Exempt: Required.
     • Is the employee exempt from WA Cares for this quarter? If an employee has provided you with a
        copy of their WA Cares Exemption approval letter for the reporting quarter, enter ‘Y’ for yes.
        Otherwise enter ‘N’ for no or leave blank.

  DOB (MMDDYYYY): Required.
     • Employee’s date of birth (DOB). Format DOB using MMDDYYYY or MM/DD/YYY or MM-DD-YYYY.




                                                                                        .CSV FILE SPECIFICATIONS (v8)
                                                                                                           MAY 2024
                                                                                                       Page 2 of 4
How to save your file as .csv
When your file is ready, go to File and click Save As. Change the file type to “CSV (Comma delimited)
(*.csv)” and save the file. Saving the file as a .csv separates (delimits) the columns with commas (“,”)
instead of vertical lines.

If opened in a plain text editor, your final .csv file should look like this:




Some programs might include quotation marks as text qualifiers when exporting as a .csv file. This file
format is acceptable and will look like this:




Test your .csv file
Test your file to make sure it’s formatted correctly: resources.paidleave.wa.gov/single-employer-filing

Do not include actual employee data in your file when testing formatting.




                                                                                        .CSV FILE SPECIFICATIONS (v8)
                                                                                                           MAY 2024
                                                                                                       Page 3 of 4
How to fix common errors
Column Labels: Make sure your file has all eight columns in the order above. All columns must have a
label, even if there is no data in that column.

Column Mismatch: Ensure there are no column totals in the file.

SSN: Social Security numbers must be in correct format. When an SSN starts with zeros, the zeros are
sometimes removed. Example: If “012345678” is changed to “12345678”, the SSN is invalid because it
has only eight digits.

    In Excel, select the SSN column and change the format to “Social Security Number”:
      • Right click on the selected area and select Format Cells.
      • Under “Category”, choose Special.
      • Change “Type” from ZIP Code to Social Security Number. Click OK.


Hours: All hours must be reported as whole numbers. Round up to the nearest whole number. 152.25
hours should be reported as 153 hours. If there are no hours to report enter “0”.
    In Excel, select the Hours column and change the format to “Number”:
      • Right click on the selected area and select Format Cells.
      • Under “Category”, choose Number.
      • Change “Decimal places” to 0 and uncheck “Use 1000 Separator”. Click OK.

Wages: All wages must be reported with two decimals, but no commas.
    In Excel, select the Wages column and change the format to “Number”:
      • Right click on the selected area and select Format Cells.
      • Under “Category”, choose Number.
      • Uncheck “Use 1000 Separator”. Click OK.

DOB: Date of birth can be formatted as text or “Short Date”.

    To format as text in Excel: before inputting data, select the DOB column and change the format to
    “Text”:
      • Right click on the selected area and select Format Cells.
      • Under “Category”, choose Text. Click OK.

    To format as “Short Date” in Excel: select the DOB column and change the format to “Short Date”:
      • Right click on the selected area and select Format Cells.
      • Under “Category”, choose Short Date. Click OK.




                                                                                    .CSV FILE SPECIFICATIONS (v8)
                                                                                                       MAY 2024
                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
