Standards for
Internal Control
in the Federal
Government
By the Comptroller General of the
United States
2024
GAO-25-107721
United States Government Accountability Office
May 2025
Standards for
Internal Control
in the Federal
Government
By the Comptroller General of the
United States
May 2025
GAO-25-107721
United States Government Accountability Office
By the Comptroller General of the
United States
The 2025 revision of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government supersedes the Standards for Internal Control in the
Federal Government (GAO-14-704G) issued in September 2014.
The 2025 revision of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government is effective beginning with fiscal year 2026 and the FMFIA
reports covering that year. Early adoption is permitted.
ccv .
Overview
Page i GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Letter 1
Overview 4
How to Use the Green Book 4
Section 1 - Fundamental Concepts of Internal Control 6
Definition of Internal Control 6
Definition of an Internal Control System 7
Section 2 - Establishing an Effective Internal Control System 8
Presentation of Standards 8
Components, Principles, and Attributes 9
Documentation Requirements 11
Internal Control and the Entity 13
Roles in an Internal Control System 14
Objectives of an Entity 15
Section 3 - Evaluation of an Effective Internal Control System 18
Factors of Effective Internal Control 18
Evaluation of Internal Control 18
Section 4 - Additional Considerations 21
External Parties 21
Information Technology 23
Scalability 25
Benefits and Costs of Internal Control 25
Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control 26
Use by Other Entities 27
Control Environment 28
Principle 1 - Demonstrate Commitment to Integrity and Ethical Values 29
Tone at the Top 29
Standards of Conduct 30
Adherence to Standards of Conduct 30
Principle 2 - Exercise Oversight Responsibility 31
Oversight Structure 31
Oversight for the Internal Control System 33
Input for Remediation of Deficiencies 33
Principle 3 - Establish Structure, Responsibility, and Authority 34
Organizational Structure 34
Assignment of Responsibility and Delegation of Authority 35
Documentation of the Internal Control System 36
Contents
Overview
Page ii GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Principle 4 - Demonstrate Commitment to Competence 36
Expectations of Competence 37
Recruitment, Development, and Retention of Individuals 37
Succession and Contingency Plans and Preparation 38
Principle 5 - Enforce Accountability 38
Enforcement of Accountability 38
Consideration of Excessive Pressures 39
Risk Assessment 40
Principle 6 - Define Objectives and Risk Tolerances 41
Definitions of Objectives 41
Definitions of Risk Tolerances 42
Principle 7 - Identify, Analyze, and Respond to Risks 43
Identify Risks 44
Analyze Risks 46
Respond to Risks 47
Principle 8 - Assess Fraud, Improper Payment, and Information
Security Risk 48
Identify Risks Related to Fraud, Improper Payments, and
Information Security 49
Types of Fraud and Fraud Risk Factors 50
Types of Improper Payments and Improper Payment Risk Factors 52
Types of Information Security Risk and Information Security Risk
Factors 53
Analyze and Respond to Identified Risks 55
Principle 9 - Identify, Analyze, and Respond to Change 56
Identify Significant Changes 56
Establish a Change Assessment Process 57
Identify, Analyze and Respond to Risks Related to Significant
Changes 59
Control Activities 61
Principle 10 - Design Control Activities 62
Response to Risks 62
Design of Appropriate Types of Control Activities 62
Design of Automated and Manual Control Activities 68
Design of Preventive and Detective Control Activities 70
Design of Control Activities at Various Levels 71
Segregation of Duties 73
Overview
Page iii GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Principle 11 - Design General Control Activities over Information
Technology 73
Response to Risks 74
Design of the Entity’s Information Technology 74
Design of Appropriate Types of General Control Activities 75
Principle 12 - Implement Control Activities 80
Documentation of Control Activities Through Policies and
Procedures 80
Periodic Review of Control Activities 81
Information and Communication 82
Principle 13 - Use Quality Information 83
Identification of Information Requirements 83
Relevant Data from Reliable Sources 83
Data Processed into Quality Information 84
Principle 14 - Communicate Internally 85
Communication Throughout the Entity 85
Appropriate Methods of Communication 86
Principle 15 - Communicate Externally 87
Communication with External Parties 87
Appropriate Methods of Communication 88
Monitoring 90
Principle 16 - Perform Monitoring Activities 91
Establishment of a Baseline 91
Internal Control System Monitoring 91
Evaluation of Results 93
Principle 17 - Evaluate Issues and Remediate Deficiencies 94
Reporting of Issues 94
Evaluation of Issues 95
Corrective Actions 95
Appendix I: Requirements 97
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and Detective Control Activities and Sources of Data 100
Types of Activities 101
Examples of Preventive and Detective Control Activities 102
Sources of Data 107
Overview
Page iv GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Appendix III: Additional Resources 109
Fraud and Improper Payments Resources 109
Information Security Resources 112
Appendix IV: Acknowledgments 115
Comptroller General’s Advisory Council on Standards for Internal
Control in the Federal Government (2023-2025) 115
GAO Project Team 116
Staff Acknowledgments 116
Glossary 117
GAO’s Mission 125
Figures and Table
Figure 1: Green Book Sample Page 5
Figure 2: Achieving Objectives through Internal Control 6
Figure 3: Relationship Between Policies and Procedures,
Controls, and Control Activities 7
Figure 4: The Five Components and 17 Principles of Internal
Control 10
Figure 5: The Components, Objectives, and Organizational
Structure of Internal Control 13
Figure 6: The 17 Principles Supporting the Five Components of
Internal Control 14
Table 1: Common Categories of Control Activities 63
Figure 7: Common Categories of Information Technology Control
Activities 69
Page 1 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
Comptroller General
of the United States
Policymakers and managers are continually seeking ways to improve
accountability in achieving an entity’s mission. A key factor in this is to
implement an effective internal control system. An effective internal
control system helps an entity adapt to shifting environments, evolving
demands, and changing risks. This includes the challenges managers
face when addressing risks related to fraud, improper payments,
information security, and implementation of new or substantially changed
programs. As new programs are implemented, existing programs are
substantially changed, and entities strive to improve processes and
implement new information technology, management continually monitors
its internal control system so that it is effective and updated when
necessary.
Section 3512 (c) and (d) of Title 31 of the United States Code, commonly
known as the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA),
requires the Comptroller General to issue standards for internal control in
the federal government. FMFIA requires federal executive branch entities
to establish internal control in accordance with these standards.
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government (known as the
Green Book) provides the overall framework for establishing and
maintaining an effective internal control system. The term internal control
in this document covers all aspects of an entity’s objectives (operations,
reporting, and compliance).
The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO) provides internal control guidance in its Internal
Control - Integrated Framework, which introduced the concept of
principles related to the five components of internal control.1 The Green
Book adapts these principles for a government environment. Office of
Management and Budget Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility
for Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control, provides
requirements for federal executive branch agencies to establish a process
that management must implement to properly assess and improve
internal control.
1See Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, Internal
Control - Integrated Framework (New York: American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, 2013).
Letter
Page 2 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
The Green Book may also be adopted by federal entities outside the
executive branch and by nonfederal entities, such as state, local, and
quasi-governmental entities and nonprofit organizations, as a framework
for an internal control system. Management of an entity determines,
based on applicable laws and regulations, how to appropriately adapt the
standards presented in the Green Book as a framework for the entity.
The 2025 revision of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government contains changes from, and supersedes, Standards for
Internal Control in the Federal Government (GAO-14-704G) issued in
September 2014. This revision provides requirements, guidance, and
resources to help managers better address risk areas related to fraud;
improper payments; information security; and the implementation of new
or substantially changed programs, including emergency assistance
programs. Key changes in this 2025 revision include the following:
• The need to consider risks related to improper payments and
information security when identifying, analyzing, and responding
to risks.
• Documentation of the results of risk assessments, including the
identification, analysis, and response to risks.
• Documentation of a change assessment process for identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risk related to significant changes so
that the internal control system can be quickly adapted as needed
to respond to significant changes as they occur.
• Two new appendixes that provide additional information related to
control activities, examples of sources of data, and references to
additional resources that management may leverage in designing,
implementing, and operating effective internal control systems to
address risks, including areas related to fraud, improper
payments, and information security.
Updates include an emphasis on prioritizing preventive control activities
and highlighting management’s responsibility for internal control at all
levels within the entity’s organizational structure, such as program and
financial managers. Other updates were made to clarify the intent of the
standards and to continue harmonization with COSO’s Internal Control –
Integrated Framework.
The 2025 revision of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government has gone through an extensive deliberative process,
including public comments and input from the Comptroller General’s
Advisory Council on Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Page 3 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Government. The advisory council consists of individuals knowledgeable
about internal control, drawn from federal, state, and local government;
the private sector; and academia. The views of all parties were thoroughly
considered in finalizing the standards.
The 2025 revision of Standards for Internal Control in the Federal
Government is effective beginning with fiscal year 2026 and the FMFIA
reports covering that year. Early implementation is permitted.
An electronic version of this document can be accessed at
https://www.gao.gov/greenbook.
I appreciate the efforts of government officials, public accounting
professionals, and other members of the audit and academic
communities who provided valuable assistance in developing these
standards. I extend special thanks to the members of the Advisory
Council on Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government for
their extensive input and feedback.
Gene L. Dodaro
Comptroller General
of the United States
Overview
Page 4 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government (known as the
Green Book) provides managers criteria for designing, implementing, and
operating an effective internal control system. It defines the standards
through components and principles and explains why they are integral to
an entity’s internal control system. In a mature and highly effective
internal control system, internal control may be indistinguishable from
day-to-day activities personnel perform.
The Green Book is structured as follows:
1. An Overview, which includes the following sections:
Section 1: an overview of the fundamental concepts of internal
control
Section 2: a discussion of internal control components, principles,
attributes, and minimum documentation requirements; how these
relate to an entity’s objectives; and the three categories of objectives
Section 3: a discussion of the evaluation of the entity’s internal
control system’s design, implementation, and operation
Section 4: additional considerations that apply to all components in
an internal control system
2. A discussion of each of the five components and 17 principles and the
related attributes.
3. Appendixes, as follows:
Appendix I: Requirements
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and Detective Control Activities
and Sources of Data
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Appendix IV: Acknowledgments
4. A Glossary, which includes terms to assist in clarifying the Green
Book.
The Green Book indicates the component and principle requirements
through the use of “must” and “should.” Further discussion of these
requirements, as well as documentation requirements, is included in
section 2 of the Overview. All requirements are summarized in appendix I.
Figure 1 depicts a sample page from the Green Book. This illustration
identifies the components, principles, attributes, and documentation
requirements of the Green Book. Documentation requirements are
identified throughout the Green Book with a symbol and the wording
“[documentation requirement]” following the narrative as shown in
figure 1.
Overview
How to Use the
Green Book
Overview
Page 5 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Figure 1: Green Book Sample Page
Overview
Page 6 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
OV1.01 Internal control is a process effected by an entity’s oversight
body, management, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable
assurance that the objectives of an entity will be achieved (see fig. 2).
These objectives and related risks can be broadly classified into one or
more of the following three categories:
• Operations - Effectiveness and efficiency of operations
• Reporting - Reliability of reporting for internal and external use
• Compliance - Compliance with applicable laws and regulations
Figure 2: Achieving Objectives through Internal Control
OV1.02 These are distinct but overlapping categories. A particular
objective can fall under more than one category, can address different
needs, and may be the direct responsibility of different individuals.
OV1.03 Internal control comprises the plans, methods, policies,
procedures, and other mechanisms used to fulfill the mission, strategic
plan, goals, and objectives of the entity. Internal control serves as the first
line of defense in safeguarding assets and securing information. In short,
internal control helps managers achieve desired results through effective
stewardship of the entity’s resources.
OV1.04 Embedded in the internal control process are controls. Controls
consist of policies and procedures that management establishes to effect
Section 1 -
Fundamental
Concepts of Internal
Control
Definition of Internal
Control
Overview
Page 7 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
relevant principles within each component of internal control. Controls are
interrelated and may support multiple principles and entity objectives.
Policies reflect management or oversight body statements of what is
expected to be done. Procedures consist of actions that implement
policies. Policies and procedures that establish controls are a subset of
the entity’s overall policies and procedures. Embedded within controls are
control activities. Control activities are actions that management
establishes through policies and procedures as part of the control
activities component to specifically mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s
objectives to acceptable levels. The relationship between policies and
procedures, controls, and control activities is depicted in figure 3.
Figure 3: Relationship Between Policies and Procedures, Controls, and Control
Activities
OV1.05 An internal control system consists of integrated and continuous
processes, effected by people, that are collectively designed to provide
reasonable assurance, not absolute assurance, that an entity’s objectives
will be achieved.
OV1.06 Internal control is not one event, but a series of actions that occur
throughout the entity’s activities. Internal control is recognized as an
integral part of the processes management uses to achieve its objectives
rather than as a separate system within an entity. In this sense, internal
control is built into the entity as a part of the organizational structure to
help managers achieve the entity’s objectives on an ongoing basis.
Definition of an Internal
Control System
Overview
Page 8 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
OV1.07 People are what make internal control work. Management—at all
levels within the entity’s organizational structure, including program and
financial managers—is responsible for an effective internal control
system. As part of this responsibility, management sets the entity’s
objectives, implements controls, and evaluates the internal control
system. However, other personnel throughout an entity need to
understand the importance of an effective internal control system and
play important roles in designing, implementing, and operating an
effective internal control system.
OV1.08 An effective internal control system increases the likelihood that
an entity will achieve its objectives. However, no matter how well
designed, implemented, or operated, an internal control system cannot
provide absolute assurance that an entity will meet all its objectives.
Factors that can affect the entity’s ability to achieve its objectives include
events outside the entity’s control or influence, faulty or biased
management judgments or decisions, human error, management
overrides of internal control, collusion, or unsuitable objectives. Therefore,
once in place, effective internal control provides reasonable, not absolute,
assurance that an entity will achieve its objectives.
OV2.01 The Green Book defines the standards for internal control in the
federal government. The Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of
1982 (FMFIA) requires federal executive branch entities to establish
internal control in accordance with these standards. The standards
provide criteria for assessing the design, implementation, and operating
effectiveness of internal control in federal government entities to
determine whether such systems are effective. Nonfederal entities may
use the Green Book as a framework to design, implement, and operate
an internal control system.2
OV2.02 The Green Book applies to all entity objectives: operations,
reporting, and compliance. However, these standards are not intended to
limit or interfere with duly granted authority related to legislation,
2See para. OV4.20 for further discussion of use by other entities.
Section 2 -
Establishing an
Effective Internal
Control System
Presentation of Standards
Overview
Page 9 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
rulemaking, or other discretionary policymaking in an organization. In
implementing the Green Book, management is responsible for designing
the internal control system to fit an entity’s circumstances and building it
in as an integral part of the entity’s operations.
OV2.03 An entity determines its mission, sets a strategic plan,
establishes entity objectives, and formulates plans to achieve its
objectives. Management, with oversight from the entity’s oversight body,
may set objectives for an entity as a whole or target activities within the
entity. Management uses internal control to help the organization achieve
these objectives. While there are different ways to present internal
control, the Green Book approaches internal control through a
hierarchical structure of five components and 17 principles. The hierarchy
includes requirements for establishing an effective internal control
system, including minimum documentation requirements.
OV2.04 The five components represent the highest level of the hierarchy
of standards for internal control in the federal government. The five
components of internal control must be effectively designed,
implemented, and operating, and operating together in an integrated
manner, for an internal control system to be effective. The five
components of internal control are as follows:
• Control Environment - The foundation for an internal control system.
It provides the discipline and structure to help an entity achieve its
objectives.
• Risk Assessment - The identification and analysis of risks facing the
entity as it seeks to achieve its objectives. This assessment provides
the basis for developing appropriate risk responses.
• Control Activities - The actions management establishes through
policies and procedures to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s
objectives to acceptable levels.
• Information and Communication - The quality information
management and other personnel communicate and use to support
the internal control system.
• Monitoring - Activities management establishes and operates to
assess the quality of performance over time and promptly resolve the
findings of audits and other reviews.
OV2.05 The 17 principles support the effective design, implementation,
and operation of the associated components and represent requirements
necessary to establish an effective internal control system.
Components, Principles,
and Attributes
Overview
Page 10 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
OV2.06 In general, all components and principles are relevant for
establishing an effective internal control system. In rare circumstances,
there may be an operating or regulatory situation in which management
has determined that a principle is not relevant for the entity to achieve its
objectives and mitigate risks. If management determines that a principle
is not relevant, management supports that determination with
documentation that includes the rationale for how, in the absence of that
principle, the associated component could be designed, implemented,
and operated effectively [documentation requirement].
OV2.07 Figure 4 lists the five components of internal control and 17
related principles.
Figure 4: The Five Components and 17 Principles of Internal Control
Overview
Page 11 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
OV2.08 The Green Book also contains application guidance in the form of
attributes. Management considers attributes when designing,
implementing, and operating the associated principles. Attributes provide
further explanation of the principles and may also contain minimum
documentation requirements. Attributes may explain more precisely what
a requirement means and what it is intended to cover or include examples
of procedures that may be appropriate for an entity. Other than the
minimum documentation requirements contained within attributes, an
attribute does not impose a requirement.
OV2.09 Attributes are relevant to the proper application of the
requirements and assessing whether the related principle is designed,
implemented, and operating in a manner that supports an effective
internal control system. Management has a responsibility to understand
the attributes and how they support fulfilling the principle requirements.
Management may also identify and consider additional attributes based
on specific circumstances of the entity. The Green Book, however, does
not prescribe how management designs, implements, and operates an
internal control system.
OV2.10 Documentation is a necessary part of an effective internal control
system. The level and nature of documentation may vary based on the
size of the entity and the complexity of the processes it performs.
Management exercises judgment in determining the extent or type of
documentation that is needed.
OV2.11 Documentation is required for the effective design,
implementation, and operating effectiveness of an entity’s internal control
system. Management develops and maintains documentation of its
internal control system.3
The Green Book also includes the following minimum documentation
requirements:
• If management determines that a principle is not relevant,
management supports that determination with documentation that
includes the rationale for how, in the absence of that principle, the
associated component could be designed, implemented, and
operated effectively. (paragraph OV2.06)
• Management documents the results of the risk assessments,
including the identification, analysis, and response to risks, that are
3See para. 3.09 for this documentation requirement and paras. 3.10 through 3.12 for
further discussion of documentation of the internal control system.
Documentation
Requirements
Overview
Page 12 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
completed on both a periodic and ongoing basis. This includes
documentation of the consideration of risks related to fraud, improper
payments, information security, and significant internal and external
changes that could impact the internal control system. (paragraph
7.15)
• Management documents a change assessment process for
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks related to significant
changes so that the internal control system can be quickly adapted as
needed to respond to significant changes as they occur. (paragraph
9.05)
• Management establishes control activities by documenting in policies
what is expected and in procedures specified actions that implement
policies, to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to
acceptable levels. (paragraph 12.02)
• Management evaluates and documents the results of ongoing
monitoring and separate evaluations to identify internal control issues.
(paragraph 16.09)
• Management evaluates and documents internal control issues and
determines appropriate corrective actions for internal control
deficiencies, including those reported from internal and external audits
and evaluations, on a timely basis. (paragraph 17.05)
• Management completes and documents corrective actions to
remediate internal control deficiencies, including those reported from
internal and external audits and evaluations, on a timely basis.
(paragraph 17.06)
OV2.12 These requirements represent the minimum level of
documentation in an entity’s internal control system. Management
exercises judgment in determining what additional documentation may be
necessary for an effective internal control system. If management
identifies deficiencies in achieving these documentation requirements, the
effect of the identified deficiencies is considered as part of management’s
summary determination of whether the related principle is designed,
implemented, and operating effectively.
OV2.13 Minimum documentation requirements are identified throughout
the Green Book with a symbol and the wording “[documentation
Overview
Page 13 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
requirement]” following the narrative.4 The minimum documentation
requirements are also summarized in appendix I.
OV2.14 A direct relationship exists among an entity’s objectives, the five
components of internal control, and the organizational structure of an
entity. Objectives are what an entity wants to achieve. Management uses
internal control to help the organization achieve these objectives. The five
components of internal control are what is required of the entity to
achieve the objectives. Organizational structure encompasses the overall
entity, divisions, operating units, functions, and other structures
management uses to achieve the objectives. Functions include business
processes, such as accounting and payroll processing, security services,
or health care claims processing. Business processes are established
across the entity to enable organizations to achieve their objectives and
transform inputs into outputs through a series of transactions or activities.
This relationship is depicted in the form of a cube that the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
developed (see fig. 5).5
Figure 5: The Components, Objectives, and Organizational Structure of Internal
Control
4See fig. 1 for an illustration.
5See paras. 3.02 through 3.05 for further discussion of organizational structure.
Internal Control and the
Entity
Overview
Page 14 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
OV2.15 The three categories into which an entity’s objectives can be
classified are represented by the columns labeled on top of the cube. The
five components of internal control are represented by the rows. The
organizational structure is represented by the third dimension of the cube.
OV2.16 The three categories of objectives are not parts of the entity’s
organizational structure. For instance, operations objectives relate to the
effectiveness and efficiency of operations not specific operating units or
functions, such as human resources or program offices.
OV2.17 Each component of internal control applies to all three categories
of objectives and the organizational structure. The principles support the
components of internal control (see fig. 6).
Figure 6: The 17 Principles Supporting the Five Components of Internal Control
OV2.18 Internal control is a dynamic, iterative, and integrated process in
which components impact the design, implementation, and operating
effectiveness of each other. No two entities will have an identical internal
control system because of differences in entity factors, such as mission,
regulatory environment, strategic plan, size, risk tolerance, and
information technology, and in the judgment needed in responding to
these differing factors.
OV2.19 Because internal control is a part of management’s overall
responsibility, the five components are discussed in the context of the
management of the entity. However, everyone in the entity has a
responsibility for internal control. In general, roles in an entity’s internal
control system can be categorized as follows:
Roles in an Internal
Control System
Overview
Page 15 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Oversight body - The oversight body is responsible for overseeing
the strategic direction of the entity and obligations related to the
accountability of the entity. This includes overseeing management’s
design, implementation, and operation of an internal control system.
For some entities, an oversight body might be one or a few members
of senior management. For other entities, multiple parties may be
members of the entity’s oversight body. In the Green Book, oversight
by an oversight body is implicit in each component and principle.
• Management - Personnel directly responsible for all activities of an
entity, including the design, implementation, and operating
effectiveness of an entity’s internal control system. Management at all
levels within the entity’s organizational structure is involved as
appropriate, including program and financial managers. Managers’
responsibilities vary depending on their functions and level in the
organizational structure.
• Other personnel - Those that help management design, implement,
and operate an internal control system. They perform assigned
internal control responsibilities and communicate issues noted in the
entity’s operations, reporting, or compliance objectives.6
OV2.20 Collaboration on the design, implementation, and operation of the
internal control system is key to an effective internal control system.
Collaboration involves the entity’s oversight body, management at all
levels within the entity’s organizational structure, and other personnel,
along with the participation of all appropriate functions within the
organizational structure and external parties as applicable. For example,
program managers, financial managers, and other personnel relevant to
achieving an entity’s objectives collaborate when designing control
activities.
OV2.21 Oversight conducted by external auditors and, if applicable, the
office of inspector general (OIG), is not considered a part of an entity’s
internal control system. While management may evaluate and incorporate
recommendations from external auditors and the OIG, responsibility for
an entity’s internal control system resides with management.
OV2.22 Management, with oversight by the entity’s oversight body, sets
objectives to meet the entity’s mission, strategic plan, and goals.
Objectives are also set to meet requirements for the entity that are
established in applicable laws and regulations. Management sets
6See paras. 17.02 through 17.04 for further discussion of identifying issues.
Objectives of an Entity
Overview
Page 16 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
objectives before designing an entity’s internal control system.
Management may include setting objectives as part of the strategic
planning process. When designing the internal control system,
management balances allocating resources with the degree of risk,
complexity, or other factors relevant to achieving the entity’s objectives.7
OV2.23 Management, as part of designing an internal control system,
defines the entity’s objectives in specific and measurable terms that
enable management to identify, analyze, and respond to risks related to
achieving those objectives.
Categories of Objectives
OV2.24 Management groups objectives into one or more of the three
categories of objectives:
• Operations - Effectiveness and efficiency of operations
• Reporting - Reliability of reporting for internal and external use
• Compliance - Compliance with applicable laws and regulations
Operations Objectives
OV2.25 Operations objectives relate to achieving an entity’s mission,
including program, financial, and administrative goals. An entity’s mission
may be defined in a strategic plan. Such plans set the goals and
objectives for an entity along with the effective and efficient operations
necessary to fulfill those objectives. Effective operations produce the
intended results, while efficient operations do so in a manner that
minimizes the waste of resources.
OV2.26 Management can develop, from the objectives, related
subobjectives for units within the organizational structure. By linking
objectives throughout the entity to the mission, management improves the
effectiveness and efficiency of operations in achieving the mission.
Reporting Objectives
OV2.27 Reporting objectives relate to the preparation of reports for use
by the entity, its stakeholders, or other external parties. Reporting
objectives may be grouped further into the following subcategories:
7See paras. OV4.15 through OV4.17 for further discussion of the allocation of resources.
Overview
Page 17 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• External financial reporting objectives - Objectives related to the
release of the entity’s financial performance in accordance with
professional standards and applicable laws and regulations, as well
as expectations of stakeholders.
• External nonfinancial reporting objectives - Objectives related to
the release of nonfinancial information in accordance with appropriate
standards and applicable laws and regulations, as well as
expectations of stakeholders.
• Internal financial reporting objectives and nonfinancial reporting
objectives - Objectives related to gathering and communicating
information that management needs to support decision-making and
evaluation of the entity’s performance.
Compliance Objectives
OV2.28 In the government, objectives related to compliance with
applicable laws and regulations are often significant. Laws and
regulations often prescribe a government entity’s objectives, structure,
methods to achieve objectives, and reporting of performance relative to
achieving objectives. Management considers objectives in the category of
compliance comprehensively for the entity and determines what controls
are necessary to design, implement, and operate for the entity to achieve
these objectives effectively.
OV2.29 Management conducts activities in accordance with applicable
laws and regulations. As part of specifying compliance objectives, the
entity determines which laws and regulations apply to the entity.
Management is expected to set objectives that incorporate these
requirements. Some entities may set objectives to a higher level of
performance than established by laws and regulations. In setting those
objectives, management can exercise discretion relative to the
performance of the entity.
Safeguarding of Assets
OV2.30 A subset of the three categories of objectives is the safeguarding
of assets, which is the protection and preservation of entity assets.
Management designs an internal control system to provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or prompt detection and correction of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of an entity’s assets.
Overview
Page 18 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Setting Subobjectives
OV2.31 Management can develop from objectives more specific
subobjectives throughout the organizational structure. Management
defines subobjectives in specific and measurable terms that can be
communicated to the personnel who are assigned responsibility for
achieving these subobjectives. Both management and other personnel
require an understanding of an objective, its subobjectives, and defined
levels of performance for accountability in an internal control system.
OV3.01 The purpose of this section is to provide management with
factors to consider in evaluating the effectiveness of an internal control
system. The Green Book defines the standards for internal control in the
federal government. FMFIA requires federal executive branch entities to
establish internal control in accordance with these standards. For federal
executive branch entities, Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Circular A-123 provides requirements and guidance on how to evaluate
and report on internal control in the federal government. Entities outside
the federal executive branch may refer to applicable laws and regulations
as well as input from key external stakeholders when determining how to
appropriately evaluate and report on internal control.
OV3.02 An effective internal control system is designed to provide
reasonable assurance that the organization will achieve its objectives. As
stated in section 2 of the Overview, an effective internal control system
has
• each of the five components of internal control effectively designed,
implemented, and operating and
• the five components operating together in an integrated manner.
OV3.03 To determine whether an internal control system is effective,
management assesses the design, implementation, and operating
effectiveness of the five components and 17 principles. If a principle or
component is not effective, or the components are not operating together
in an integrated manner, then an internal control system cannot be
effective.
OV3.04 In the federal government, FMFIA mandates that the head of
each executive branch agency annually prepare a statement as to
whether the agency’s systems of internal accounting and administrative
controls comply with FMFIA requirements. If the systems do not comply,
the head of the agency will prepare a report in which any material
weaknesses in the agency’s system of internal accounting and
Section 3 - Evaluation
of an Effective
Internal Control
System
Factors of Effective
Internal Control
Evaluation of Internal
Control
Overview
Page 19 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
administrative controls are identified and the plans and schedule for
correcting them are described. OMB issues guidance for evaluating the
agency’s systems of internal accounting and administrative controls in
OMB Circular A-123. Entities outside the federal executive branch may
refer to applicable laws and regulations for guidance in preparing
statements regarding internal control.
Design and Implementation
OV3.05 When evaluating the design of a control, management
determines whether the control individually and in combination with other
controls can address risks related to achieving an entity’s objectives.
When evaluating implementation, management determines if the control
exists and if the entity has placed the control into operation. A control
cannot be effectively implemented if it was not effectively designed. A
deficiency in design exists when (1) a control necessary to achieve a
control objective is missing or (2) an existing control is not properly
designed so that even if the control operates as designed, the control
objective would not be achieved. A control objective is the aim or purpose
of specified controls to effect relevant principles within each component of
internal control. A deficiency in implementation exists when a properly
designed control is not implemented correctly in the internal control
system.
Operating Effectiveness
OV3.06 In evaluating operating effectiveness, management determines if
controls were applied at relevant times during the period under
evaluation, the consistency with which they were applied, by whom or by
what means they were applied, and whether they were applied as
designed. If substantially different controls were used at different times
during the period under evaluation, management evaluates operating
effectiveness separately for each unique control system. A control cannot
be effectively operating if it was not effectively designed and
implemented. A deficiency in operation exists when a properly designed
control does not operate as designed, or when the person performing the
control does not possess the necessary authority or competence to
perform the control effectively.
Effect of Deficiencies on the Internal Control System
OV3.07 Management evaluates control deficiencies identified through its
ongoing monitoring of the internal control system as well as any separate
evaluations that internal and external parties perform. A deficiency in
Overview
Page 20 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
internal control exists when the design, implementation, or operation of a
control does not allow management or other personnel, in the normal
course of performing their assigned responsibilities, to achieve the entity’s
objectives.
OV3.08 Management evaluates the significance of identified deficiencies.
Significance refers to the relative importance of a deficiency to the entity’s
achieving a defined objective. To evaluate the significance of the
deficiency, management assesses its effect on achieving the defined
objectives at both the entity and transaction levels.8 Management
evaluates the significance of a deficiency by considering the following:
• Magnitude of impact - The likely effect that the deficiency could have
on the entity achieving its objectives and is affected by factors such as
the size, pace, and duration of the deficiency’s impact. A deficiency
may be more significant to one objective than another.
• Likelihood of occurrence - The possibility of a deficiency impacting
an entity’s ability to achieve its objectives.
• Nature of the deficiency - Factors such as the degree of subjectivity
involved with the deficiency and whether the deficiency arises from
potential fraud or misconduct.
The oversight body oversees management’s evaluation of the
significance of deficiencies so that deficiencies have been properly
considered.
OV3.09 Deficiencies are evaluated both on an individual basis and in the
aggregate. Management considers the correlation among different
deficiencies or groups of deficiencies when evaluating their significance.
Deficiency evaluation varies by entity because of differences in entities’
objectives.
OV3.10 For each principle, management makes a summary
determination of whether the principle is designed, implemented, and
operating effectively. If a principle is not designed, implemented, or
operating effectively, then the respective component cannot be effective.
Management considers attributes in assessing whether the related
principle is designed, implemented, and operating effectively, as
attributes are relevant to the proper application of the principle
8See paras. 10.14 through 10.20 for further discussion of entity-level and transaction-level
control activities.
Overview
Page 21 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
requirements.9 Management also considers the impact of deficiencies
identified in achieving documentation requirements as part of this
summary determination.10
OV3.11 Based on the results of the summary determination for each
principle, management concludes on the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of each of the five components of internal control.
Management also considers whether the five components operate
together effectively. If one or more of the five components are not
effectively designed, implemented, or operating, or if they are not
operating together in an integrated manner, then an internal control
system is ineffective. Judgment is used in making such determinations,
which includes exercising reasonable care.
OV4.01 Management interacts with external parties regarding matters
impacting the functioning of the internal control system. External parties
can be service organizations that manage business processes on behalf
of the entity, organizations for which the entity has oversight
responsibilities, and other parties interacting with the entity.
OV4.02 Management involves external parties, as necessary, or uses
information obtained from external parties when designing, implementing,
and operating an effective internal control system. Open communication
with external parties allows information to be shared to identify risks,
trends, events, or circumstances that may impact achieving the entity’s
objectives.11
Service Organizations
OV4.03 Management may engage external parties to perform certain
business processes for the entity, such as accounting and payroll
processing, security services, or health care claims processing.
9See paras. OV2.03 through OV2.09 for further discussion on the relationship of
components, principles, and attributes.
10See paras. OV2.10 through OV2.13 for further discussion of documentation
requirements.
11See paras. 15.02 through 15.06 for further discussion of communication with external
parties.
Section 4 - Additional
Considerations
External Parties
Overview
Page 22 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Management may also engage external parties to provide services in
support of business processes, such as information systems services and
information technology procurement and maintenance services. In the
Green Book, these external parties are referred to as service
organizations.12 Management retains responsibility for the effectiveness
of controls over business processes assigned to service organizations.
When controls performed by a service organization are necessary for the
entity to achieve its control objectives, these controls are considered part
of the entity’s system of internal control. Therefore, management needs to
understand the controls that service organizations design, implement, and
operate for assigned business processes. The entity may also implement
its own controls to achieve control objectives that are related to the
processes performed by the service organization.
OV4.04 If controls a service organization performs are necessary to
achieve the entity’s control objectives, the entity implements any
complementary user entity controls and other controls, as appropriate,
related to the use of the service organization. Complementary user entity
controls are those controls that a service organization identifies as
necessary for the entity to implement to achieve the control objectives
specified by the service organization. Other controls may include those
related to establishing two-way communication with service organizations
and monitoring the effectiveness of the design, implementation, and
operation of service organizations’ controls in achieving the entity’s
control objectives.13
OV4.05 Management exercises judgment in determining the extent of
oversight for the business processes assigned to a service organization.
Management may consider the following in making this determination:
• the nature and significance of services outsourced;
• previous experience with the service organization;
• the service organization’s standards of conduct;
12Service organizations may further outsource assigned business processes to other
organizations. These organizations may be referred to as subservice organizations. The
Green Book does not distinguish between service organizations and subservice
organizations. References to service organizations include organizations to which
business processes are further assigned.
13See para. 16.08 for further discussion of monitoring the business processes and related
controls that service organizations perform.
Overview
Page 23 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• the quality and frequency of the service organization’s enforcement of
adherence to standards of conduct by its personnel;
• the scale and level of complexity of the service organization’s
operations and organizational structure;
• the service organization’s adoption of, and compliance with, relevant
standards, such as those relating to quality management, supply
chain management, and information security;
• available information on service organization operational and control
effectiveness and related risks, such as that in attestation reports,
performance audit reports, and performance metrics; and
• the extent to which the entity’s internal controls are sufficient to
provide reasonable assurance that the entity achieves its control
objectives and addresses risks related to the assigned process.
Organizations for Which the Entity Has Oversight Responsibilities
OV4.06 Management also interacts with external parties for which the
entity has oversight responsibilities. These may include those that are
regulated by the entity, administer programs on behalf of the entity, or
receive federal financial assistance (such as loans or grants) from the
entity. Establishing two-way communication with external parties
promotes information sharing that may improve the internal control
systems of both parties and facilitate effective stewardship of public
resources.
Other Parties Interacting with the Entity
OV4.07 Management may interact with other external parties to obtain or
share information relevant to the entity’s internal control system. These
external parties include suppliers, contractors, regulators, external
auditors, federal entities, state and local governments, and the public.
This may include information from legal or regulatory requirements or
data-sharing agreements with other government entities.14
OV4.08 Information technology may be essential to achieving the entity’s
objectives and better controlling its business processes. Entities and
individuals are increasingly interconnected through the use of information
14See paras. 15.02 through 15.06 for further discussion of communication with external
parties.
Information Technology
Overview
Page 24 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
technology, while the types of information technology and the ways it is
used evolve rapidly.
OV4.09 The information technology used in the entity’s automated
processes is often referred to by other terms, such as information
systems or technology. In the Green Book, information technology refers
to the infrastructure, platforms, and software used to automate
processes.15 In the Green Book, information system refers more broadly
to the people, processes, data, and information technology that
management uses to obtain, generate, communicate, or dispose of
information to support the entity’s business processes.16 The protection of
information and information technology is also referred to by multiple
terms, including information security and cybersecurity. In the Green
Book, information security refers to the protection of information or
information technology from unauthorized access, use, disclosure,
disruption, modification, or destruction to provide confidentiality, integrity,
and availability. Information security includes protecting the entity against
cyberattacks.
OV4.10 Information technology may be incorporated into business
processes to reduce the risk of human error and enhance efficiency.
Information technology enables organizations to connect with internal and
external end users, process high volumes of transactions, transform data
into information to support sound decision-making, and share that
information in real time. Information technology may also be used to
automate control activities to enhance internal control over the processing
and security of information.17
OV4.11 The use of information technology—particularly new or emerging
technologies—by an entity creates both opportunities and risks. It can
enable innovation and generate efficiencies through automation. It may
also increase complexity, which makes identifying and managing risks
more difficult.18 Management allocates appropriate resources, including
personnel, to maintain and secure the entity’s information technology.
Management designs appropriate general control activities to mitigate
15See paras. 11.03 through 11.06 for further discussion of the entity’s information
technology.
16See para. 13.05 for further discussion of the entity’s information system.
17See paras. 10.05 through 10.07 for further discussion of automated control activities.
18See paras. 8.14 through 8.17 for further discussion of risks related to information
security.
Overview
Page 25 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
information security risks. General control activities support the proper
operation of the entity’s information technology by creating a suitable
environment for effective operation of application and user control
activities.19
OV4.12 The principles presented in the Green Book do not change with
the application of information technology; however, technology may
change how internal control is designed. Management considers the
greater availability of information and the use of automated processes as
it designs, implements, and operates the entity’s internal control system.
Information technology may be integrated into all components of internal
control to achieve the entity’s objectives.
OV4.13 The 17 principles apply to both large and small entities. However,
smaller entities may have different implementation approaches than
larger entities. Smaller entities typically have unique advantages, which
can contribute to an effective internal control system. These may include
a higher level of involvement by management in processes and direct
interaction with personnel. Smaller entities may find informal staff
meetings effective for communicating quality information to support the
internal control system, whereas larger entities may need more formal
mechanisms—such as written reports, intranet portals, or periodic formal
meetings—to communicate with the organization.
OV4.14 A smaller entity, however, faces greater challenges in
segregating duties because of its concentration of responsibilities and
authorities in the organizational structure.20 Management can respond to
this increased risk through the design of the internal control system, for
example, by adding additional levels of review for key processes,
reviewing randomly selected transactions and their supporting
documentation, taking periodic asset counts, or checking supervisor
reconciliations.
OV4.15 Internal control provides many benefits to an entity. It provides
management with added confidence regarding the achievement of
objectives, provides feedback on how effectively an entity is operating,
and helps reduce risks affecting the achievement of the entity’s
objectives. Management considers a variety of cost factors in relation to
expected benefits when designing and implementing internal controls.
19See paras. 11.07 through 11.17 for further discussion of general control activities over
information technology and para. 10.07 for further discussion of application and user
control activities.
20See paras. 10.21 through 10.23 for further discussion of segregation of duties.
Scalability
Benefits and Costs of
Internal Control
Overview
Page 26 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Cost factors may include the time and resources required to design,
implement, and operate effective internal controls. The complexity of the
cost-benefit determination is compounded by the interrelationship of
controls with processes. Where controls are integrated within processes,
it is difficult to isolate either their benefits or costs.
OV4.16 When designing control activities, management selects an
appropriate mix of preventive and detective control activities to
adequately and timely mitigate risks. Management prioritizes preventive
control activities where appropriate and considers the benefits and costs
of either preventing or detecting and correcting an unintended event or
result in the entity’s operations.21 Preventive control activities generally
offer the most cost-efficient use of resources and help management avoid
difficult and expensive remediation efforts, such as the “pay and chase
model,” where efforts are made to detect and correct an unintended event
or result after it occurs. There may be more monetary or nonmonetary
costs to the entity when correcting an unintended event or result that has
already occurred, rather than trying to prevent it, and the recovery of
losses, such as improper payments, may not be possible.
OV4.17 Management decides how an entity evaluates the benefits versus
costs of various approaches to implementing an effective internal control
system. However, cost alone is not an acceptable reason to avoid
implementing internal controls. The costs versus benefits considerations
support management’s ability to effectively design, implement, and
operate an internal control system that balances allocating resources with
the degree of risk, complexity, or other factors relevant to achieving the
entity’s objectives.
OV4.18 Enterprise risk management is a strategic process applied across
the entity designed to identify potential events that may affect the entity,
manage risk, and provide reasonable assurance that an entity’s
objectives will be achieved. It is part of an entity’s overall governance and
accountability process and encompasses more than internal control.
OV4.19 Internal control is an integral part of enterprise risk management
that focuses on achieving specified operations, reporting, and compliance
21See paras. 10.10 through 10.13 for further discussion of preventive and detective
control activities.
Enterprise Risk
Management and Internal
Control
Overview
Page 27 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
objectives.22 The Green Book does not prescribe how management
implements an enterprise risk management process.
OV4.20 The Green Book may be applied as a framework for an internal
control system by federal entities outside the executive branch and by
nonfederal entities, such as state, local, and quasi-governmental entities
and nonprofit organizations. Management of the entity determines, based
on applicable laws and regulations, how to appropriately adapt the
standards presented in the Green Book as a framework for the entity. If
entity management elects to adopt the Green Book as criteria,
management follows all relevant requirements presented in these
standards.
22See para. OV1.01 for further discussion of the entity’s objectives.
Use by Other Entities
Control Environment
Page 28 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
The control environment is the foundation for an effective internal control
system. It provides the discipline and structure, which affect the overall
quality of internal control. It influences how objectives are defined and
how control activities are structured. The oversight body and
management establish and maintain an environment throughout the entity
that sets a positive attitude toward internal control.
Principles
1. The oversight body and management should demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
2. The oversight body should oversee the entity’s internal control
system.
3. Management should establish an organizational structure, assign
responsibility, and delegate authority to achieve the entity’s
objectives.
4. Management should demonstrate a commitment to recruit, develop,
and retain competent individuals.
5. Management should evaluate performance and hold individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
Control Environment
Control Environment
Page 29 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
1.01 The oversight body and management should demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Tone at the Top
• Standards of Conduct
• Adherence to Standards of Conduct
1.02 The oversight body and management demonstrate the importance of
integrity and ethical values through their directives, attitudes, and
behavior.
1.03 The oversight body and management lead by an example that
demonstrates the organization’s values, philosophy, and operating style.
The oversight body and management set the tone at the top and
throughout the organization by their example, which is fundamental to an
effective internal control system. In larger entities, the various layers of
management in the organizational structure may also set the “tone in the
middle.” Although it is the oversight body and management’s
responsibility to set the tone at the top, other personnel throughout the
entity play an important role in supporting the tone that permeates the
organizational culture.
1.04 The oversight body’s and management’s directives, attitudes, and
behaviors reflect the integrity and ethical values expected throughout the
entity. The oversight body and management reinforce the commitment to
doing what is right, not just maintaining a minimum level of performance
necessary to comply with applicable laws and regulations, so that these
priorities are understood by all stakeholders, such as regulators, service
organizations, employees, and the public.
1.05 Tone at the top can be either a driver, as shown in the preceding
paragraphs, or a barrier to internal control. Without a strong tone at the
top to support an internal control system, the entity’s risk identification
may be incomplete, risk responses may be inappropriate, control
activities may not be appropriately designed or implemented, information
and communication may falter, and results of monitoring may not be
understood or acted upon to remediate deficiencies.
Principle 1 -
Demonstrate
Commitment to
Integrity and Ethical
Values
Tone at the Top
Control Environment
Page 30 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
1.06 Management establishes standards of conduct to communicate
expectations concerning integrity and ethical values. The entity uses
ethical values to balance the needs and concerns of different
stakeholders, such as regulators, service organizations, employees, and
the public. The standards of conduct guide the directives, attitudes, and
behaviors of the organization in achieving its objectives.
1.07 Management, with oversight from the oversight body, defines the
organization’s expectations of ethical values in the standards of conduct.
Management may consider using policies, operating principles,
guidelines, or training to regularly communicate and reinforce the
standards of conduct to the organization.
1.08 Management establishes processes to evaluate performance
against the entity’s expected standards of conduct and address any
deviations in a timely manner.
1.09 Management uses established standards of conduct as the basis for
evaluating adherence to integrity and ethical values across the
organization. Management evaluates the adherence to standards of
conduct across all levels of the entity. To gain assurance that the entity’s
standards of conduct are implemented effectively, management evaluates
the directives, attitudes, and behaviors of individuals and teams.
Evaluations may consist of ongoing monitoring or separate evaluations.23
Individual personnel can also report issues through reporting lines, such
as regular staff meetings, upward feedback processes, a whistleblowing
program, or an ethics hotline.24 The oversight body evaluates
management’s adherence to the standards of conduct as well as the
overall adherence by the entity.
1.10 Management determines tolerance levels for deviations from
standards of conduct. For instance, management may determine that the
entity will have zero tolerance for deviations from certain expected
standards of conduct, while deviations from others may be addressed
with warnings to personnel. Management establishes a process for
evaluations of individual and team adherence to standards of conduct that
escalates and remediates deviations timely and consistently.
Management, with oversight from the entity’s oversight body and with
23See paras. 16.04 through 16.09 for further discussion of ongoing monitoring and
separate evaluations.
24See paras. 14.04 through 14.06 for further discussion of upward and separate reporting
lines.
Standards of Conduct
Adherence to Standards of
Conduct
Control Environment
Page 31 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
consideration of applicable laws and regulations, takes appropriate
actions to remediate deviations.
2.01 The oversight body should oversee the entity’s internal control
system.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Oversight Structure
• Oversight for the Internal Control System
• Input for Remediation of Deficiencies
2.02 The entity determines an oversight structure to fulfill responsibilities
set forth by applicable laws and regulations, relevant government
guidance, and feedback from key stakeholders. The entity will select, or if
mandated by law will have selected for it by an applicable body, an
oversight body. When the oversight body is composed of entity
management, activities referenced in the Green Book as performed by
“management” exclude these members of management when in their
roles as the oversight body.
Responsibilities of an Oversight Body
2.03 When the oversight structure of an entity is led by senior
management, senior management may distinguish itself from divisional or
functional management by establishing an oversight body. An oversight
body oversees the entity’s operations; provides constructive criticism to
management; and where appropriate, makes oversight decisions so that
the entity achieves its objectives in alignment with its integrity and ethical
values. Members of an oversight body review management’s activities,
present alternative views, and act when faced with actual or suspected
wrongdoing.
Qualifications for an Oversight Body
2.04 In selecting members for an oversight body, the entity or applicable
body defines the entity knowledge, relevant expertise, number of
members, and possible independence needed to fulfill the oversight
responsibilities for the entity.
Principle 2 - Exercise
Oversight
Responsibility
Oversight Structure
Control Environment
Page 32 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
2.05 Members of an oversight body understand the entity’s objectives, its
related risks, and expectations of its stakeholders. In addition to an
oversight body, an organization within the federal government may have
several bodies that are key stakeholders for the entity, such as the White
House, Congress, the Office of Management and Budget, and the
Department of the Treasury. An oversight body works with key
stakeholders to understand their expectations and help the entity fulfill
these expectations if appropriate.
2.06 The entity or applicable body also considers the expertise members
need to oversee, question, and evaluate management. Capabilities
expected of all members of an oversight body include integrity and ethical
values, leadership, critical thinking, and problem-solving abilities.
2.07 Further, in determining the number of members of an oversight
body, the entity or applicable body considers the need for members of the
oversight body to have specialized skills to enable discussion, offer
constructive criticism to management, and make appropriate oversight
decisions. Some specialized skills may include the following:
• Internal control mindset (e.g., professional skepticism and
perspectives on approaches for identifying and responding to risks
and assessing the effectiveness of the internal control system).
• Programmatic expertise, including knowledge of the entity’s mission,
programs, and business processes (e.g., procurement, human capital,
and functional management expertise).
• Financial expertise, including financial reporting (e.g., accounting
standards and financial reporting requirements and budgetary
expertise).
• Relevant information technology expertise (e.g., understanding critical
systems, information security practices, and technology risks and
opportunities).
• Legal and regulatory expertise (e.g., understanding of applicable laws
and regulations).
2.08 If authorized by applicable laws and regulations, the entity may also
consider including independent members as part of an oversight body.25
Independent members with relevant expertise provide value through their
25See GAO, Government Auditing Standards: 2024 Revision, GAO-24-106786
(Washington, D.C.: February 2024), para. 3.21, for further discussion of independence.
Control Environment
Page 33 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
impartial evaluation of the entity and its operations in achieving
objectives.
2.09 The oversight body oversees management’s design,
implementation, and operation of the entity’s internal control system. The
oversight body’s responsibilities for the entity’s internal control system
include the following:
• Control Environment - Establish integrity and ethical values, develop
expectations of competence, and maintain accountability to all
members of the oversight body and key stakeholders.
• Risk Assessment - Oversee management’s assessment of risks to
achieving objectives, including risks related to fraud, improper
payments, information security, identified and potential changes, and
management override of internal control.
• Control Activities - Provide oversight to management in the
development and performance of control activities.
• Information and Communication - Analyze and discuss information
relating to the entity’s achievement of objectives.
• Monitoring - Scrutinize the nature and scope of management’s
monitoring activities as well as its evaluation and remediation of
identified deficiencies.
2.10 These responsibilities are supported by the organizational structure
that management establishes.26 The oversight body oversees
management’s design, implementation, and operation of the entity’s
organizational structure so that the processes necessary to enable the
oversight body to fulfill its responsibilities exist and are operating
effectively.
2.11 The oversight body provides input to management’s plans for
remediation of deficiencies in the internal control system as appropriate.
2.12 Management reports deficiencies identified in the internal control
system to the oversight body. The oversight body oversees and provides
direction to management on the remediation of these deficiencies. The
oversight body also provides direction when a deficiency crosses
organizational boundaries or units, or when the interests of management
may conflict with remediation efforts. When appropriate and authorized,
26See paras. 3.02 through 3.05 for further discussion of organizational structure.
Oversight for the Internal
Control System
Input for Remediation of
Deficiencies
Control Environment
Page 34 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
the oversight body may direct the creation of teams to address or oversee
specific matters critical to achieving the entity’s objectives.
2.13 The oversight body is responsible for overseeing the remediation of
deficiencies as appropriate and for providing direction to management on
appropriate time frames for correcting these deficiencies.27
3.01 Management should establish an organizational structure, assign
responsibility, and delegate authority to achieve the entity’s objectives.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Organizational Structure
• Assignment of Responsibility and Delegation of Authority
• Documentation of the Internal Control System
3.02 Management establishes the organizational structure necessary to
enable the entity to plan, execute, control, and assess the organization in
achieving its objectives. Management develops the overall responsibilities
from the entity’s objectives that enable the entity to achieve its objectives
and address related risks.
3.03 Management develops an organizational structure with an
understanding of the overall responsibilities and assigns these
responsibilities to enable the organization to operate efficiently and
effectively, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and reliably
report information. Based on the nature of the assigned overall
responsibility and related risks, management chooses the type and
number of discrete divisions, operating units, functions, and other
structures needed to achieve the entity’s objectives. Management may
identify discrete divisions, operating units, or functions, such as program
offices and related subunits, to manage the entity’s risk responses within
the internal control system.
3.04 As part of establishing an organizational structure, management
considers how divisions, operating units, functions, and other structures
interact to fulfill their overall responsibilities. Management establishes
27See para. 17.06 for further discussion of timely remediation of findings.
Principle 3 - Establish
Structure,
Responsibility, and
Authority
Organizational Structure
Control Environment
Page 35 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
reporting lines within an organizational structure so that units can
communicate the quality information necessary for each unit to fulfill its
overall responsibilities to support the internal control system.28 Reporting
lines are defined at all levels of the organization and provide methods of
communication that can flow down, across, up, and around the
structure.29 Management also considers the entity’s overall
responsibilities to external stakeholders and establishes reporting lines
that allow the entity to both communicate with and obtain information from
external stakeholders.30
3.05 Management periodically evaluates the organizational structure so
that it meets the entity’s objectives and has adapted to any new entity
objectives, such as to comply with a new law or regulation. Management
also adapts the organizational structure as necessary to respond to risks
and identified deficiencies in the internal control system.
3.06 To achieve the entity’s objectives and address related risks,
management assigns responsibility and delegates authority to key roles
throughout the entity. A key role is a position in the organizational
structure that is assigned an overall responsibility of the entity. Generally,
key roles relate to senior management positions within an entity.
3.07 Management considers the overall responsibilities assigned across
the organizational structure, determines what key roles are needed to
fulfill the assigned responsibilities, and establishes the key roles. Those in
key roles can further assign responsibility for internal control to roles
below them in the organizational structure, but they retain ownership for
fulfilling the overall responsibilities assigned to them.
3.08 Management determines what level of authority each key role needs
to fulfill a responsibility. Management delegates authority only to the
extent required to achieve the entity’s objectives. As part of delegating
authority, management evaluates each delegation for proper segregation
of duties within the organizational structure. Segregation of duties helps
prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in the entity by considering the need to
separate authority, custody, and accounting in the organizational
structure.31 As with assigning responsibility, those in key roles can
28See principle 13 for further discussion of the use of quality information.
29See paras. 14.02 through 14.06 for further discussion of internal reporting lines.
30See paras. 15.02 through 15.06 for further discussion of external reporting lines.
31See paras. 10.21 through 10.23 for further discussion of segregation of duties.
Assignment of
Responsibility and
Delegation of Authority
Control Environment
Page 36 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
delegate their authority for internal control to roles below them in the
organizational structure.
3.09 Management develops and maintains documentation of its internal
control system [documentation requirement].
3.10 Effective documentation assists in management’s design of internal
control by establishing and communicating the who, what, when, where,
and why of internal control execution to personnel. Documentation also
provides a means to retain organizational knowledge and mitigate the risk
of having that knowledge limited to a few personnel, and to communicate
that knowledge as needed to external parties, such as external auditors.
3.11 Management documents internal control to meet operational needs.
Documentation of controls, including changes to controls, is evidence that
controls are identified, capable of being communicated to those
responsible for their performance, and capable of being monitored and
evaluated by the entity.
3.12 The extent of documentation needed to support the design,
implementation, and operating effectiveness of the five components of
internal control is a matter of judgment for management. Management
considers the benefits and costs of documentation for the entity as well as
the size, nature, and complexity of the entity and its objectives. Some
level of documentation, however, is necessary so that the components of
internal control can be designed, implemented, and operating
effectively.32
4.01 Management should demonstrate a commitment to recruit, develop,
and retain competent individuals.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Expectations of Competence
• Recruitment, Development, and Retention of Individuals
• Succession and Contingency Plans and Preparation
32See paras. OV2.10 through OV2.13 for further discussion of minimum documentation
requirements.
Documentation of
the Internal
Control System
Principle 4 -
Demonstrate
Commitment to
Competence
Control Environment
Page 37 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
4.02 Management establishes expectations of competence for key roles,
and other roles at management’s discretion, to help the entity achieve its
objectives. Competence is the capability to carry out assigned
responsibilities. It requires relevant knowledge, skills, and abilities, which
are gained largely from professional experience, training, and
certifications. It is demonstrated by the behavior of individuals as they
carry out their responsibilities.
4.03 Management considers standards of conduct, assigned
responsibility, and delegated authority when establishing expectations.
Management establishes expectations of competence for key roles.
Management may also establish expectations of competence for all
personnel through policies within the entity’s internal control system.
4.04 Personnel need to possess and maintain a level of competence that
allows them to accomplish their assigned responsibilities, as well as
understand the importance of effective internal control. Holding personnel
accountable to established policies by evaluating their competence is
integral to attracting, developing, and retaining individuals. Management
evaluates competence of personnel across the entity in relation to
established policies. Management acts as necessary to address any
deviations from the established policies. The oversight body evaluates the
competence of management as well as the competence overall of entity
personnel.
4.05 Management recruits, develops, and retains competent personnel to
achieve the entity’s objectives. Management considers the following:
• Recruit - Conduct procedures to determine whether a particular
candidate fits the organizational needs and has the competence for
the proposed role.
• Train - Enable individuals to develop competencies appropriate for
key roles, reinforce standards of conduct, and tailor training based on
the needs of the role.
• Mentor - Provide guidance on the individual’s performance based on
standards of conduct and expectations of competence, align the
individual’s skills and expertise with the entity’s objectives, and help
personnel adapt to an evolving environment.
• Retain - Provide incentives to motivate and reinforce expected levels
of performance and desired conduct, including training and
credentialing as appropriate.
Expectations of
Competence
Recruitment,
Development, and
Retention of Individuals
Control Environment
Page 38 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
4.06 Management defines succession and contingency plans for key
roles to help the entity continue achieving its objectives. Succession plans
address the entity’s need to replace competent personnel over the long
term, whereas contingency plans address the entity’s need to respond to
sudden personnel changes that could compromise the internal control
system.
4.07 Management defines succession plans for key roles, chooses
succession candidates, and trains succession candidates to assume the
key roles. If management relies on a service organization to fulfill the
assigned responsibilities of key roles in the entity, management assesses
whether the service organization can continue in these key roles,
identifies other candidate organizations for the roles, and implements
processes to enable knowledge sharing with the succession candidate
organization.
4.08 Management defines contingency plans for assigning responsibilities
if a key role in the entity is vacated without advance notice. The
importance of the key role in the internal control system and the impact to
the entity of its vacancy dictates the formality and depth of the
contingency plan.
5.01 Management should evaluate performance and hold individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Enforcement of Accountability
• Consideration of Excessive Pressures
5.02 Management enforces accountability of individuals performing their
internal control responsibilities. Accountability is driven by the tone at the
top and supported by commitment to integrity and ethical values,
organizational structure, and expectations of competence, which
influence the control culture of the entity. Accountability for performance
of internal control responsibility supports day-to-day decision-making,
attitudes, and behaviors. Management holds personnel accountable
through mechanisms such as performance appraisals and disciplinary
actions.
Succession and
Contingency Plans and
Preparation
Principle 5 - Enforce
Accountability
Enforcement of
Accountability
Control Environment
Page 39 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
5.03 Management holds personnel accountable for performing their
assigned internal control responsibilities. The oversight body, in turn,
holds both management and the entire organization accountable for its
internal control responsibilities.
5.04 If management establishes incentives, management recognizes that
such actions can yield unintended consequences and evaluates
incentives so that they align with the entity’s standards of conduct.
5.05 Management holds service organizations accountable for their
assigned internal control responsibilities. Management may contract with
service organizations to perform roles in the organizational structure.
Management communicates to each service organization the objectives
of the entity and their related risks, the entity’s standards of conduct, the
role of the service organization in the organizational structure, the
assigned responsibilities and authorities of the role, and the expectations
of competence for its role that will enable a service organization to
perform its internal control responsibilities. Management, however, retains
responsibility for the effectiveness of controls over the business
processes assigned to service organizations.
5.06 Management, with oversight from the oversight body, takes
corrective action as necessary to enforce accountability for internal
control in the entity. These actions can range from informal feedback
provided by the direct supervisor to disciplinary action taken by the
oversight body, depending on the significance of the deficiency to the
internal control system.33
5.07 Management adjusts excessive pressures on personnel in the entity.
Pressure can appear in an entity because of goals management
established to meet objectives or cyclical demands of various processes
the entity performs, such as year-end financial statement preparation.
Excessive pressure can result in personnel “cutting corners” to meet the
established goals.
5.08 Management is responsible for evaluating pressure on personnel to
help personnel fulfill their assigned responsibilities in accordance with the
entity’s standards of conduct. Management can adjust excessive
pressures using many different tools, such as rebalancing workloads or
increasing resource levels.
33See para. OV3.08 for further discussion of significance of deficiencies.
Consideration of
Excessive Pressures
Risk Assessment
Page 40 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
Management assesses internal and external risks and performs risk
assessments on a periodic and ongoing basis to achieve its objectives.
These assessments provide the basis for identifying risks and developing
appropriate risk responses.
Principles
6. Management should define objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and define risk tolerances.
7. Management should identify, analyze, and respond to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
8. Management should consider risks related to fraud, improper
payments, and information security when identifying, analyzing, and
responding to risks.
9. Management should identify, analyze, and respond to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
Risk Assessment
Risk Assessment
Page 41 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
6.01 Management should define objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and define risk tolerances.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Definitions of Objectives
• Definitions of Risk Tolerances
6.02 Management defines objectives, and related subobjectives, in
specific and measurable terms to enable the design of internal control for
related risks.34 Specific terms are fully and clearly set forth so they can be
easily understood. Measurable terms allow for the assessment of
performance toward achieving objectives. Objectives are initially set as
part of the objective-setting process and then refined as they are
incorporated into the internal control system when management uses
them to establish the control environment.
6.03 Management defines objectives in specific terms, so that they are
understood at all levels of the entity. This involves clearly defining what is
to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved, and the time
frames for achievement. All objectives can be broadly classified into one
or more of three categories: operations, reporting, or compliance.
Reporting objectives are further categorized as being either internal or
external and financial or nonfinancial. Management defines objectives in
alignment with the organization’s mission, strategic plan, and
performance goals.
6.04 Management defines objectives in measurable terms so that
performance toward achieving those objectives can be assessed.
Measurable objectives are generally free of bias and do not require
subjective judgments to dominate their measurement. Measurable
objectives are also stated in a quantitative or qualitative form that permits
reasonably consistent measurement.
6.05 Management considers external requirements and internal
expectations when defining objectives to enable the design of internal
control. Legislators, regulators, and standard-setting bodies set external
34See paras. OV2.22 through OV2.31 for further discussion of setting objectives and
subobjectives.
Principle 6 - Define
Objectives and Risk
Tolerances
Definitions of Objectives
Risk Assessment
Page 42 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
requirements by establishing the laws, regulations, and standards with
which the entity is required to comply. Management identifies,
understands, and incorporates these requirements into the entity’s
objectives. Management sets internal expectations and requirements
through the established standards of conduct,35 oversight structure,36
organizational structure,37 and expectations of competence38 as part of
the control environment.
6.06 Management evaluates and, if necessary, revises defined objectives
so that they are consistent with external requirements and internal
expectations. This consistency enables management to identify and
analyze risks associated with achieving the defined objectives.
6.07 Management determines whether performance measures for the
defined objectives are appropriate for evaluating the entity’s performance
in achieving those objectives. For quantitative objectives, performance
measures may be a targeted percentage or numerical value. For
qualitative objectives, management may need to design performance
measures that indicate a level or degree of performance, such as
milestones.
6.08 Management defines risk tolerances for the defined objectives. Risk
tolerance is the acceptable level of variation in performance relative to the
achievement of objectives. Risk tolerances are initially set as part of the
objective-setting process. Management defines the risk tolerances for
defined objectives by ensuring that the set levels of variation for
performance measures are appropriate for the design of an internal
control system.
6.09 Management defines risk tolerances in specific and measurable
terms so that they are clearly stated and can be measured. For example,
for an objective to process all benefit applications within 10 business days
of receipt, management may determine that a risk tolerance of a range of
8–12 business days would be an acceptable level of variation. Depending
on the category of objectives, risk tolerances may be expressed as
follows:
35See paras. 1.06 through 1.07 for further discussion of standards of conduct.
36See paras. 2.02 through 2.08 for further discussion of oversight structure.
37See paras. 3.02 through 3.05 for further discussion of organizational structure.
38See paras. 4.02 through 4.04 for further discussion of expectations of competence.
Definitions of Risk
Tolerances
Risk Assessment
Page 43 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Operations objectives - Acceptable levels of variation in
performance relative to the achievement of operations objectives.
• Nonfinancial reporting objectives - Level of precision and accuracy
suitable for user needs, involving both qualitative and quantitative
considerations to meet the needs of the nonfinancial report user.
• Financial reporting objectives - Judgments about materiality that
consider surrounding circumstances, involve both qualitative and
quantitative considerations, and are affected by the needs of financial
report users and size or nature of a misstatement.
• Compliance objectives - Acceptable levels of variation in
performance relative to the achievement of compliance objectives,
within the context of applicable laws, regulations, and external
standards.
6.10 Management also evaluates whether risk tolerances enable the
appropriate design of internal control by considering whether they are
consistent with requirements and expectations for the defined objectives.
As in defining objectives, management considers the risk tolerances in
the context of the entity’s applicable laws, regulations, and standards as
well as the entity’s standards of conduct, oversight structure,
organizational structure, and expectations of competence. If risk
tolerances for defined objectives are not consistent with these
requirements and expectations, management revises the risk tolerances
to achieve consistency.
7.01 Management should identify, analyze, and respond to risks related
to achieving the defined objectives.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Identify Risks
• Analyze Risks
• Respond to Risks
Principle 7 - Identify,
Analyze, and
Respond to Risks
Risk Assessment
Page 44 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
7.02 Management identifies risks throughout the entity on a periodic and
ongoing basis to provide a basis for analyzing risks.39 Risk is the
possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect the achievement
of objectives. Risk assessment is the identification and analysis of risks
related to achieving the defined objectives to form a basis for designing
risk responses. Periodic risk assessments are performed at specific times
and at regular intervals, such as annually. Management considers entity
objectives, risk tolerances, and other factors when determining the scope
and frequency of these assessments. Ongoing risk assessments are
performed as needed, on a real-time basis, such as when significant
internal or external change occurs or significant emerging risks are
identified.40 Management also considers performing ongoing risk
assessments when internal control deficiencies,41 improper payments,
potential fraud, or information security breaches are detected.42
7.03 To identify risks, management considers the types of risks that
impact the entity. This includes both inherent and residual risk. Inherent
risk is the risk to an entity in the absence of management’s response to
the risk. Residual risk is the risk that remains after management’s
response to inherent risk. Once risk responses have been developed to
address inherent risk, management then considers the impact or
significance of the residual risk that remains and whether it is at an
acceptable level within the defined risk tolerances. Assessing inherent
and residual risk can assist management in understanding the extent of
risk responses needed. Management’s lack of response to either type of
risk could cause deficiencies in the internal control system.
7.04 Management considers all significant interactions within the entity
and with external parties,43 changes within the entity’s internal and
external environments,44 and other internal and external factors to identify
risks throughout the entity. Management considers these factors at both
39See para. 7.15 for further discussion of documenting the identification of risk.
40See paras. 9.02 through 9.04 for further discussion of identifying change.
41See principle 17 for further discussion of internal control deficiencies.
42See paras. 8.02 through 8.17 for further discussion of fraud, improper payments, and
information security risks.
43See paras. OV4.01 through OV4.07 for additional considerations related to external
parties.
44See paras. 9.03 through 9.04 for further discussion of changes in the internal
control system.
Identify Risks
Risk Assessment
Page 45 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
the entity and transaction levels to comprehensively identify risks that
affect defined objectives.45 Entity-level risk factors have a pervasive effect
on an entity’s internal control system and are generally considered at a
relatively high level. Transaction-level risk factors affect specific business
processes within all levels of the organizational structure and are
generally considered at a more detailed level.
Internal risk factors may include
• the complex nature of an entity’s programs;
• the level and experience of, and quality of training for, personnel;
• the entity’s organizational structure;
• limitations of the entity’s information system;
• availability and quality of data;
• use of new technology in business processes; and
• use of emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence.
External risk factors may include
• new or amended laws, regulations, or standards;
• economic instability and crises;
• developments in information technology and related security threats;
• outsourcing of business processes to external parties;
• threats to national security; and
• public health emergencies, natural and human-caused disasters, and
other catastrophic events.
7.05 Management’s consideration of risk factors related to fraud,
improper payments, and information security is discussed further in
principle 8. Management’s consideration of significant internal and
external changes that could impact the internal control system is
discussed further in principle 9.
45See paras. 10.14 through 10.20 for further discussion of entity-level and transaction-
level control activities.
Risk Assessment
Page 46 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
7.06 Risk identification methods may include qualitative and quantitative
ranking activities, forecasting and strategic planning, data analytics, and
consideration of internal control deficiencies identified through monitoring
activities or reported by internal or external parties. Performing an
analysis to identify the root causes of internal control deficiencies can
assist management in identifying risks. Management also collaborates
with relevant internal and external parties to identify risks. Internal parties
include appropriate management and other personnel from all appropriate
units within the entity’s organizational structure, including program and
financial managers. External parties may include service organizations,
suppliers, contractors, regulated entities, federal entities, state and local
governments, and grantees.
7.07 Management analyzes the identified risks, on a periodic and ongoing
basis, to estimate their significance, which provides a basis for
responding to the risks.46 Significance refers to a risk’s impact on
achieving a defined objective.
7.08 Management estimates the significance of the identified risks to
assess their impact on achieving the defined objectives at both the entity
and transaction levels. Management estimates the significance of a risk
by considering the magnitude of impact, likelihood of occurrence, and
nature of the risk. Magnitude of impact refers to the likely magnitude of
the effect of the risk on the entity’s ability to achieve its objectives. It is
affected by factors such as the size, pace, and duration of the risk’s
impact. Likelihood of occurrence refers to the level of possibility that an
unintended event or result will occur. The nature of the risk involves
factors such as the degree of subjectivity involved with the risk and
whether the risk arises from fraud or from complex or unusual
transactions.
7.09 Risks may be analyzed individually or grouped into categories with
related risks and analyzed collectively. Regardless of whether risks are
analyzed individually or collectively, management considers the
correlation among different risks or groups of risks when estimating their
significance. The specific risk analysis methodology used can vary by
entity because of differences in entities’ missions and the difficulty in
qualitatively and quantitatively defining risk tolerances.
46See para. 7.15 for further discussion of documenting the analysis of risk.
Analyze Risks
Risk Assessment
Page 47 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
7.10 Management designs responses to the analyzed risks so that risks
are within the defined risk tolerance for the defined objective.47
Management designs overall risk responses for the analyzed risks based
on the significance of the risk, defined risk tolerance, and cost-benefit
determination.48 These risk responses may include the following:
• Acceptance - No action is taken to respond to the risk.
• Avoidance - Action is taken to stop the business process or the part
of the business process causing the risk.
• Reduction - Action is taken to reduce the likelihood or magnitude of
the risk.
• Sharing - Action is taken to transfer or share risks across the entity or
with external parties, such as insuring against losses.
7.11 Based on the selected risk response, management designs controls
to effectively mitigate the analyzed risks on a timely basis. If management
has chosen to reduce or share a risk, then management designs controls,
which may exist within each component of internal control or constitute a
specific control activity.49 Typically, controls are not needed when an
entity chooses to either accept or avoid a risk. The nature and extent of
risk response actions and any associated controls will depend, at least in
part, on the defined level of risk tolerance.
7.12 When designing controls to mitigate risk, management may modify
controls related to the entity’s oversight responsibilities, organizational
structure, and responsibilities and authorities throughout the entity.
Management may also develop separate processes within the periodic
and ongoing risk assessment process50 with separate oversight
responsibilities, to manage certain risks as part of the entity’s overall
internal control system. This may be necessary to achieve objectives due
to the nature of certain types of risks, such as for risks related to fraud,
improper payments, or information security, or when a risk is pervasive or
47See para. 7.15 for further discussion of documenting the response to risk.
48See paras. OV4.15 through OV4.17 for further discussion of the benefits and costs of
internal control.
49See para. 10.02 for further discussion of designing control activities in response to risks.
50See para. 7.02 for further discussion of the periodic and ongoing risk assessment
process.
Respond to Risks
Risk Assessment
Page 48 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
has an impact on multiple processes. These separate processes would
cover all components of internal control related to these specific risks.
7.13 After designing risk responses, management then considers residual
risk. In instances where a risk response results in the residual risk
exceeding defined risk tolerances, management revisits and revises the
response. Operating within the defined risk tolerance provides greater
assurance that the entity will achieve its objectives.
7.14 Performance measures are used to assess whether risk response
actions enable the entity to operate within the defined risk tolerances.
When risk response actions do not enable the entity to operate within the
defined risk tolerances, management may need to revise risk responses
or reconsider defined risk tolerances. Management may need to conduct
periodic risk assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of the risk
response actions.
7.15 Management documents the results of the risk assessments,
including the identification, analysis, and response to risks, that are
completed on both a periodic and ongoing basis. This includes
documentation of the consideration of risks related to fraud, improper
payments, information security, and significant internal and external
changes that could impact the internal control system [documentation
requirement].51
8.01 Management should consider risks related to fraud, improper
payments, and information security when identifying, analyzing, and
responding to risks.52
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Identify Risks Related to Fraud, Improper Payments, and Information
Security
• Types of Fraud and Fraud Risk Factors
51See paras. 3.09 to 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal control
system.
52See app. III for additional resources related to addressing risks related to fraud,
improper payments, and information security.
Principle 8 - Assess
Fraud, Improper
Payment, and
Information Security
Risk
Risk Assessment
Page 49 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Types of Improper Payments and Improper Payment Risk Factors
• Types of Information Security Risk and Information Security Risk
Factors
• Analyze and Respond to Identified Risks
8.02 Management identifies risks related to fraud, improper payments,
and information security through the same risk identification process
performed for all analyzed risks.53 However, these risks are discussed
further in this principle because they may be pervasive or have an impact
on multiple processes and can often be inadequately addressed in the
risk assessment process.
8.03 Management identifies risks related to fraud, improper payments,
and information security on a periodic and ongoing basis to provide a
basis for analyzing risks. Risk assessment is the identification and
analysis of risks related to achieving the defined objectives to form a
basis for designing risk responses. To determine the scope and
frequency of these assessments, management considers the entity’s
objectives, risk tolerances, any legal or regulatory requirements, and
other factors.54 However, management may determine that the risk
assessments need to be performed more frequently than required by
legal or regulatory requirements due to the significance of risks or other
factors, such as changes to programs. For example, to adequately
identify risks related to improper payments for new programs,
management may perform improper payment risk assessments for a
certain program or activity on a more frequent and recurring basis,
regardless of the required frequency in legal or regulatory requirements
for such risk assessments.
8.04 Management considers the types of fraud, improper payments, and
information security breaches that may occur, along with relevant risk
factors, when identifying risks related to these areas. While risks may be
greater when multiple risk factors are present, the presence of one factor
may still indicate a risk. Performing an analysis to identify the root cause
of identified internal control deficiencies can assist management in
identifying risks.
53See paras. 7.02 through 7.06 for further discussion of identifying risks.
54See para. 7.02 for further discussion of scope and frequency of risk assessments.
Identify Risks Related to
Fraud, Improper
Payments, and
Information Security
Risk Assessment
Page 50 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
8.05 Management considers information that internal and external parties
provide to identify risks related to fraud, improper payments, and
information security. This may include information reported by the office
of inspector general, internal auditors, personnel, service organizations,
and other external parties that interact with the entity. Information may
include emerging information security threats, identified instances of
improper payments, or adjudicated cases of fraud as well as suspected or
alleged fraud.
8.06 Management considers the types of fraud that could impact the
entity to provide a basis for identifying and analyzing fraud. Fraud
involves obtaining something of value through willful misrepresentation.55
Types of fraud may include the following:
• Fraudulent reporting56 - Intentional misstatements or omissions of
amounts or disclosures in financial or nonfinancial reports through
willful misrepresentation to deceive report users. For fraudulent
financial reports, this could include intentional alteration of accounting
records, misrepresentation of transactions, or intentional
misapplication of accounting principles. For fraudulent nonfinancial
reports, this could include intentional misrepresentation of information.
• Misappropriation of assets - The unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposal of an entity’s assets through willful misrepresentation. This
could include efforts to conceal theft of property, embezzlement of
receipts, bid rigging, fraudulent payments,57 or misrepresentation of
eligibility to obtain benefits.
• Other illegal acts - Intentional violations of laws or regulations
through willful misrepresentation that may be related to financial or
nonfinancial activities. This could include certain types of corruption,
bribery, extortion, and cybercrimes.
8.07 As part of a risk assessment, management considers the risk of
fraud that could impact the entity from both within the entity and from
55Misrepresentation includes material false statements of fact, as well as the omission or
concealment of material fact. Willful misrepresentation may involve actual knowledge,
deliberate ignorance (being aware of a substantial risk of misrepresentation but
intentionally avoiding steps to confirm truth or falsity), or reckless disregard (to be
conscious of a substantial and unjustifiable risk of falsity but make the representations
anyway). A judicial or other adjudicative system determines whether an act is in fact fraud;
this determination is beyond management’s professional responsibility for assessing risk.
56See para. OV2.27 for further discussion of reporting objectives.
57All fraudulent payments are considered improper payments.
Types of Fraud and Fraud
Risk Factors
Risk Assessment
Page 51 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
external parties. For example, external fraud risk may arise when an
entity relies on service organizations’ internal control systems to perform
business processes for the entity. External parties that present fraud risk
may also include program beneficiaries who fraudulently obtain benefits.
8.08 In addition to fraud, management considers other forms of
misconduct that can occur, such as waste and abuse. Waste is the act of
using or expending resources carelessly, extravagantly, or to no purpose.
Abuse involves behavior that is deficient or improper when compared with
behavior that a prudent person would consider reasonable and necessary
operational practice given the facts and circumstances. Abuse may
include corruption through the misuse of authority or position for personal
gain or for the benefit of another. Waste and abuse do not necessarily
involve fraud, though fraudulent misrepresentations may be made to
conceal such misconduct. The presence of waste and abuse may indicate
potential fraud and an environment that is conducive to fraud. Waste and
abuse may also impact the achievement of defined objectives.
8.09 In addition to fraud, management also considers the risk of
management override of controls.58 Management override of controls
does not necessarily involve fraud but may indicate potential fraud and
increases fraud risk.
8.10 Management considers fraud risk factors. Fraud risk factors do not
necessarily indicate that fraud exists but are often present when fraud
occurs. Fraud risk factors may include the following:
• Incentive/pressure - Management, other personnel, or external
parties have an incentive or are under pressure, which provides a
motive to commit fraud.59
• Opportunity - Circumstances exist, such as the absence of controls,
ineffective controls, or the ability of management to override controls,
that provide an opportunity to commit fraud.
• Attitude/rationalization - Individuals involved can rationalize
committing fraud. Some individuals possess an attitude, character, or
ethical values that allow them to commit dishonest acts knowingly and
intentionally.
58See para. 10.22 for further discussion of management override.
59See paras. 5.07 through 5.08 for further discussion of pressure.
Risk Assessment
Page 52 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
8.11 Management considers the types of improper payments that could
impact the entity to provide a basis for identifying and analyzing improper
payment risks. Improper payments are any payments that should not
have been made or that were made in an incorrect amount.60 Payments
are also considered improper when there is insufficient or lack of
documentation. Improper payments can result from lack of oversight,
mismanagement, errors, deficiencies in internal control, abuse, or fraud.
While all payments resulting from fraudulent activity are considered
improper, not all improper payments are the result of fraud. Types of
improper payments may include the following:
• Overpayments - These payments are those in excess of the amount
due to be paid to recipients. They include payments to ineligible
recipients, any payment for an ineligible good or service, payments for
goods or services not received, and any duplicate payment. They
could be either intentional—such as fraudulent payments—or
unintentional.
• Underpayments - These payments are those in which recipients did
not receive some or all the funds to which they were entitled.
8.12 Management considers improper payment risk factors, both internal
and external, which may include the following:
• whether the program or activity is new to the entity;
• the complexity of the program or activity;
• the volume of payments made through the program or activity;
• whether the payments or payment eligibility decisions are made
through external parties;
• recent major changes in program funding, legal authorities, practices,
or procedures;
• the level and experience of and quality of training for personnel
responsible for making payment eligibility determinations or verifying
that payments made are accurate;
• the extent to which the entity relies on potential recipients self-
certifying their own eligibility;
60This definition of improper payments is only for the purposes of the Green Book and not
for the purposes of any legal authority.
Types of Improper
Payments and Improper
Payment Risk Factors
Risk Assessment
Page 53 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• identified internal control deficiencies that might hinder accurate
payment processing;
• similarities to other programs or activities that have reported improper
payment estimates or been deemed susceptible to significant
improper payments;
• improper payment estimates previously reported for the program or
activity, or other indicator of potential susceptibility to improper
payments;
• whether the program or activity lacks the information or database to
confirm eligibility or verify the accuracy of the payment; and
• the risk of fraud related to the program or activity.
8.13 Management considers existing improper payment estimates, if
available, when determining the significance of risks and the
effectiveness of the internal control system in responding to improper
payment risks. These estimates may come from management’s annual
improper payment estimates as part of its monitoring activities, which may
be mandated by law.61 Management may also develop estimates more
frequently than mandated by law, such as for programs that are new,
substantially changed, or rapidly implemented to facilitate a timely risk
assessment.
8.14 Management considers the types of risks that could impact the
entity’s information and information technology to provide a basis for
identifying and analyzing risks related to information security.62
Information security risk is the risk to entity operations, assets, and
personnel, as well as external parties, due to unauthorized access, use,
disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information or
information technology. These risks may impact the information security
objectives of confidentiality, integrity, and availability.63 Types of
information security risk impacting each of these three objectives may
include the following:
• Unauthorized access - End users, developers, or unrelated attackers
may compromise the confidentiality of a platform or software system
61See para. 16.06 for further discussion of monitoring activities related to improper
payments.
62See para. OV4.09 for further discussion of information security.
63See para. 11.07 for further discussion of information security objectives.
Types of Information
Security Risk and
Information Security Risk
Factors
Risk Assessment
Page 54 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
by overriding controls to gain unauthorized access to the entity’s
information technology or use capabilities that exceed their rights in
those systems.
• Exploitation of personnel - Attacks, such as phishing attempts, that
trick users into revealing information or giving an attacker access to a
platform or software system.
• Installation of malicious software - Installation of a program or file
that intentionally attacks the entity’s information technology by
corrupting or stealing data, overwhelming a system with traffic, or
locking the entity out. The objective of a malicious software (malware)
attack may be to harm the entity, gain information, or obtain a
financial gain.
• Automated attacks - Attacks on information technology may be
automated through mechanisms, such as bots, artificial intelligence,
and machine learning software.
• Undetected errors - End users, developers, or unrelated attackers
may improperly alter data in the entity’s information technology
without visible evidence. Erroneous changes resulting from corrupted
systems may not be readily detectable by users.
• Threats to physical environment - Threats to the physical
environment, such as fire, loss of electricity, loss of climate controls,
or natural disasters, can result in the loss of information or information
technology system damage or disruption. In addition, failure to
appropriately limit physical access to information or an information
technology system may also allow a malicious attacker to access or
modify information.
8.15 Internal risks include unintentional acts by employees, whose
vigilance is a key defense against external threats and user error. Internal
threats may also come from intentional malicious acts by former or
disgruntled employees. They pose unique risks because these individuals
may be both motivated to work against the entity and better equipped to
succeed in carrying out a malicious act as they have greater access to
and knowledge of the entity’s information technology and business
processes.
8.16 External risks may come from external parties that connect with or
operate the entity’s information technology or from unrelated attackers.
External parties that connect with the entity’s operating systems and
databases in the normal course of operations may include end users,
such as program beneficiaries; federal, state, and local government
Risk Assessment
Page 55 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
entities; and service organizations. External parties that operate the
entity’s information technology may include developers to which the entity
outsources the design of information technology or service organizations
or location-independent technology services that operate the systems on
behalf of the entity.64 External information security risks may arise when
an entity relies on these external parties’ internal control systems as they
perform business processes for the entity.
8.17 Management considers information security risk factors, which may
include the following:
• the complexity of the entity’s information technology;
• new or emerging technologies;
• information technology that may be outdated or incompatible with new
technologies;
• decentralized operating systems and communications networks;
• external-party access to the entity’s operating systems and
communications networks;
• information technology personnel not having the knowledge, skills, or
abilities to maintain the entity’s information technology and respond to
related risks; and
• personnel being unfamiliar with technology and related risks.
8.18 Management analyzes and responds to identified fraud, improper
payment, and information security risks so that they are effectively
mitigated. These risks are analyzed through the same risk analysis
process performed for all identified risks.65 Management analyzes the
identified risks by estimating their significance to assess their impact on
achieving the defined objectives.
8.19 Management responds to fraud, improper payment, and information
security risks consistent with the risk response process performed for all
analyzed risks.66 Based on the selected risk response, management
determines the specific actions to effectively mitigate each risk. It may be
64See paras. 11.06 and 11.13 for further discussion of information technology that may be
outsourced to external parties.
65See paras. 7.07 through 7.09 for further discussion of analyzing risks.
66See paras. 7.10 through 7.15 for further discussion of responding to risks.
Analyze and Respond to
Identified Risks
Risk Assessment
Page 56 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
possible to reduce or avoid certain fraud, improper payment, or
information security risks by making changes to the entity’s activities and
processes. These changes may include stopping or reorganizing certain
operations, modifying the entity’s information technology, reallocating
roles among personnel to enhance segregation of duties, or designing or
modifying control activities. Management may also need to develop
further responses to address the risk of management override of controls,
particularly when considering fraud risks.
8.20 Management may develop separate processes within the periodic
and ongoing risk assessment process67 with separate oversight
responsibilities, to manage risks related to fraud, improper payments, or
information security as part of the entity’s overall internal control system.
These separate processes would cover all components of internal control
related to these specific risks.68
9.01 Management should identify, analyze, and respond to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Identify Significant Changes
• Establish a Change Assessment Process
• Identify, Analyze, and Respond to Risks Related to Significant
Changes
9.02 As part of periodic and ongoing risk assessments, management
identifies, on a timely basis, significant internal and external changes that
could impact the entity’s internal control system. Identifying, analyzing,
and responding to significant changes is similar to, if not part of, the
entity’s periodic and ongoing risk assessment process. However, change
is discussed separately because it is critical to an effective internal control
67See para. 7.02 for further discussion of the periodic and ongoing risk assessment
process.
68See para. 7.12 for further discussion of separate processes to manage certain risks as
part of the entity’s internal control system, and para. 11.09 for discussion of a separate
process for managing risks related to information security in the context of general control
activities.
Principle 9 - Identify,
Analyze, and
Respond to Change
Identify Significant
Changes
Risk Assessment
Page 57 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
system and can often be overlooked or inadequately or not timely
addressed in the normal course of operations.
9.03 Conditions affecting the entity and its environment continually
change. Management identifies, on a timely basis, significant changes to
internal and external conditions that have already occurred or are
expected to occur. Management anticipates and plans for significant
changes that are expected to occur by using a forward-looking process to
identify expected changes. This enables management to timely identify
and analyze the impact of related risks.
9.04 Changes in internal conditions may include changes to the entity’s
programs or activities, oversight structure, organizational structure,
personnel, and technology. Changes in external conditions may include
changes in the governmental, economic, technological, legal, regulatory,
and physical environments. Changes in external conditions may also
include economic instability or crises, public health emergencies, natural
and human-caused disasters, and other catastrophic events.
9.05 Management documents a change assessment process for
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks related to significant
changes so that the internal control system can be quickly adapted as
needed to respond to significant changes as they occur [documentation
requirement].69
9.06 As significant changes that an entity may need to respond to can
occur quickly and unexpectedly, establishing a change assessment
process in advance of significant changes occurring is essential to
maintaining an effective internal control system as change occurs.70 This
is especially important in situations where management may need to
rapidly implement a new program or substantially change an existing
program. For example, management may need to implement an
emergency assistance program in response to public health emergencies,
natural or human-caused disasters, or other catastrophic events.
9.07 Management develops and documents a change assessment
process based on the risk assessment process described in principle 7.71
69See paras. 3.09 through 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal
control system.
70See para. 7.08 for further discussion of management’s estimation of significance of risk.
71See principle 7 for further discussion of the risk assessment process.
Establish a Change
Assessment
Process
Risk Assessment
Page 58 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
The process includes procedures for identifying, analyzing, and
responding to risks related to significant changes.
9.08 Management’s change assessment process includes steps for timely
identifying risks related to significant change, which may include the
following:
• the need to provide complex or different services quickly, which may
result in increased risks overall, including those related to fraud,
improper payments, information security, and noncompliance with
applicable laws and regulations;
• ability to design and implement preventive control activities timely due
to legal requirements or urgency to deliver a service quickly;
• ability to timely communicate relevant and quality information both
internally and externally to support the internal control system, such
as changes to identified risks, internal control responsibilities, and
training on how to administer new internal controls;
• availability of existing resources, such as workforce capacity or
availability of data (i.e., data-sharing agreements for external data), to
adequately and timely adapt the entity’s internal control system to
address new or increased risks; and
• known internal control deficiencies that could increase risks related to
significant change.
9.09 Management’s change assessment process includes considerations
for management to effectively analyze risk related to significant change,
which may include the following:
• how to determine the appropriate scope and extent of initial risk
assessment related to a significant change—management considers
entity objectives, risk tolerances, and other factors when making this
determination—and
• how to determine the timing of subsequent ongoing risk assessments
as the entity responds to significant changes.
9.10 Management’s change assessment process includes considerations
to facilitate its ability to quickly adapt the entity’s internal control system
and effectively respond to a significant change once it occurs, such as the
following:
• modifying the organizational structure, responsibilities, and authorities
to address identified risks;
Risk Assessment
Page 59 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• determining whether to create a separate process, with separate
oversight responsibilities, to manage risks related to the change as
part of the entity’s overall internal control system;72
• identifying any existing control activities, policies and procedures, or
other processes in existing or similar programs that could be
leveraged or modified;
• identifying preventive control activities that could be implemented prior
to the distribution of program benefits, even if time or resources are
constrained;
• identifying monitoring and detective control activities that could be
enhanced or performed more frequently if preventive controls to
mitigate certain risks are not feasible;
• considering lessons learned from past programs to inform future
practices;
• identifying and establishing communications with external parties that
may contribute to the operational effectiveness of the entity’s internal
control system when implementing the change; and
• identifying and establishing data-sharing, data-matching, and data-
analytics opportunities, including considering known data access
issues.
9.11 Changes in conditions affecting the entity and its environment often
require changes to the entity’s internal control system, as existing controls
may not be effective for meeting objectives or addressing risks under
changed conditions. Once significant changes are identified,
management uses its change assessment process to identify and analyze
the impact of risks related to the identified significant changes on the
internal control system and responds by revising the system on a timely
basis, when necessary, to maintain its effectiveness. This risk
assessment,73 and revision to the internal control system when
necessary, is completed before the entity responds to changing
conditions, for example, before it implements a new program or makes
significant changes to existing programs or activities.
72See para. 7.12 for further discussion of separate processes to manage certain risks as
part of the entity’s internal control system.
73See para. 9.09 for further discussion of the scope and extent of the risk assessment.
Identify, Analyze and
Respond to Risks Related
to Significant Changes
Risk Assessment
Page 60 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
9.12 Management also performs ongoing risk assessments as the entity
responds to changing conditions to analyze and respond to risks on a
real-time basis.
9.13 Further, changing conditions often prompt new risks or changes to
existing risks that need to be assessed. As part of analyzing and
responding to significant change, management performs a risk
assessment to identify, analyze, and respond to any new risks prompted
by the changes. Additionally, existing risk assessments may need to be
updated to determine whether the defined risk tolerances and risk
responses need to be revised.
Control Activities
Page 61 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
Control activities are the actions management establishes through
policies and procedures to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s
objectives to acceptable levels.
Principles
10. Management should design control activities to mitigate risks to
achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable levels.
11. Management should design general control activities over information
technology to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to
acceptable levels.
12. Management should implement control activities through policies and
procedures.
Control Activities
Control Activities
Page 62 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
10.01 Management should design control activities to mitigate risks to
achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable levels.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Response to Risks
• Design of Appropriate Types of Control Activities
• Design of Automated and Manual Control Activities
• Design of Preventive and Detective Control Activities
• Design of Control Activities at Various Levels
• Segregation of Duties
10.02 Management designs control activities in response to risks to
achieve an effective internal control system. Control activities are the
actions management establishes through policies and procedures to
specifically mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable
levels.74 Control activities support all the components of internal control
but are particularly aligned with the risk assessment component. As part
of periodic and ongoing risk assessments, management identifies
objectives; the risks related to the entity and its objectives, including its
service organizations; the entity’s risk tolerance; and risk responses.
Management designs control activities or modifies existing control
activities to mitigate risks to acceptable levels within management’s
defined risk tolerance.75 Typically, control activities are needed when an
entity chooses to either reduce or share a risk. The nature and extent of
the risk response and any associated control activities will depend, at
least in part, on management’s defined risk tolerance.
10.03 Management designs appropriate types of control activities for the
entity’s internal control system, including the entity’s information
technology, by considering all aspects of its internal control components,
relevant business processes, and operating environment. An entity’s
internal control is flexible to allow management to tailor control activities
74See para. OV1.04 for further discussion of policies and procedures, including controls
and control activities.
75See paras. 7.10 through 7.11 for further discussion of risk response actions.
Principle 10 - Design
Control Activities
Response to Risks
Design of Appropriate
Types of Control Activities
Control Activities
Page 63 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
to meet the entity’s unique needs. The specific control activities used by a
given entity may be different from those used by others based on several
factors. These factors could include specific threats the entity faces and
the risks involved, differences in objectives, managerial judgment, size
and complexity of the entity, operational environment, and sensitivity and
value of data.
10.04 The common categories of control activities listed in table 1
illustrate the range and variety of control activities that may be useful to
management. The list is not all inclusive and may not include all
categories of control activities that an entity may need.76
Table 1: Common Categories of Control Activities
• Top-level reviews of actual performance
• Reviews by management at the functional or activity level
• Establishment and review of performance measures and indicators
• Management of human capital
• Control activities over information processing
• Physical control activities over vulnerable assets
• Access restrictions to and accountability for resources and records
• Authorization of transactions
• Control activities over complete, accurate, and timely recording of valid transactions
• Appropriate documentation of transactions and control activities
• Oversight of entity business processes assigned to service organizations
• Segregation of duties
• Program-related control activities
• Fraud-related control activities
• Improper-payment-related control activities
• Compliance-related control activities
Source: GAO. | GAO-25-107721
• Top-level reviews of actual performance - Management tracks
major entity achievements and compares these to the plans, goals,
and objectives set by the entity.
• Reviews by management at the functional or activity level -
Management compares actual performance to planned or expected
results throughout the organization and analyzes significant
differences.
76See app. II for examples of control activities that may be useful to management.
Control Activities
Page 64 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Establishment and review of performance measures and
indicators - Management establishes control activities to monitor
performance measures and indicators that it has established for its
defined objectives. These may include comparisons and assessments
relating different sets of data to one another so that management can
analyze the relationships and take appropriate actions. Management
designs control activities aimed at validating the propriety and integrity
of both entity and individual performance measures and indicators.
• Management of human capital - Management establishes control
activities to manage and supervise the entity’s workforce. Effective
management and supervision of an entity’s workforce, its human
capital, is essential to achieving results. The entity can successfully
carry out its business processes when competent personnel are on
board and are provided the right training, tools, structure, incentives,
and responsibilities.
Management continually assesses the needs of the entity so that it
can maintain a workforce that has the required knowledge, skills, and
abilities to meet these needs and achieve entity objectives. Training is
aimed at developing and retaining employee knowledge, skills, and
abilities to meet changing organizational needs. Management
provides qualified and continuous supervision so that entity objectives
are achieved. Management designs a performance evaluation and
feedback system, supplemented by an effective rewards system, to
help employees understand the connection between their
performance and the entity’s success. As part of its human capital
planning, management also considers how best to retain valuable
employees, plan for their eventual departure, and maintain a
continuity of needed skills and abilities.
• Control activities over information processing - A variety of control
activities are used to achieve effective information processing for the
completeness, accuracy, and validity of data.77 Examples include data
validation rules designed to detect erroneous data values before
processing, accounting for transactions in numerical and logical
sequences, processing of transactions timely, and comparing file
totals with control accounts.
77Information processing may be manual or automated. Where these control activities are
incorporated into automated business processes, they are considered application or user
control activities. See paras. 10.05 through 10.09 for further discussion of automated and
manual control activities, and para. 10.18 for further discussion of information processing
objectives.
Control Activities
Page 65 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Physical control activities over vulnerable assets - Management
establishes physical control activities to secure and safeguard
vulnerable assets. Examples include security for and limited access to
assets such as cash, securities, inventories, and equipment (including
information technology infrastructure) that might be vulnerable to risk
of loss or unauthorized use. Management periodically counts and
compares such assets to control records. Management may also
establish physical control activities over facilities housing vulnerable
assets. Entrance points may be secured by physical barriers, such as
turnstiles, gates, and locked doors. Restricted areas containing
sensitive information may include additional security, such as alarms,
fencing, cameras, and motion- or sensor-triggered lighting to prevent
or deter unauthorized access.
• Access restrictions to and accountability for resources and
records - Management limits access to physical and digital resources
and records to authorized individuals; it also assigns and maintains
accountability for their custody and use. Management may
periodically inspect evidence demonstrating accountability for
resources and records (such as custodial records and access logs) to
help reduce the risk of errors, fraud, misuse, or unauthorized
alteration.
• Authorization of transactions - Transactions are authorized and
executed only by persons acting within the scope of their authority.78
This is the principal means of assuring that only valid transactions to
exchange, transfer, use, or commit resources are initiated or entered
into. Management clearly communicates authorizations to personnel,
for example, by assigning the capabilities to their credentials in an
information technology system, or by signature or other methods of
express approval. Management may require approval from multiple
levels or units (multilevel authorization) to authorize unique or
recurring transactions that present a greater risk to the entity.
Management regularly reviews and updates system credentials and
access rights related to authorizations for continued appropriateness.
• Control activities over complete, accurate, and timely recording
of valid transactions - Management establishes control activities so
that valid transactions are completely and accurately recorded on a
timely basis. Transactions are promptly recorded to maintain their
78See para. 11.11 for further discussion of logical and physical access controls that
prevent unauthorized transactions in the entity’s information technology.
Control Activities
Page 66 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
relevance and value to management in controlling operations and
making decisions. This applies to the entire process or life cycle of a
transaction or event, from its initiation and authorization through its
final classification in summary records.
• Appropriate documentation of transactions and control
activities - Management clearly documents the performance of
control activities and all transactions and other significant events that
occur in a manner that allows the documentation to be readily
available for examination. Documentation and records are properly
managed and maintained.
• Oversight of entity business processes assigned to service
organizations - Management establishes control activities to oversee
business processes that service organizations perform on behalf of
the entity.79 Examples include control activities to obtain, review, and
appropriately respond to information regarding relevant service
organization operations and controls, including information from
audits, evaluations, and performance metrics. Management
establishes processes for communicating necessary information with
service organizations, such as relevant risks, internal control practices
to consider, information requirements, and circumstances that may
impact achieving the entity’s objectives.80 The entity may also
establish complementary user entity controls that the service
organization identified as being necessary for the entity to achieve its
objectives.
• Segregation of duties - Management divides or segregates key
duties and responsibilities among different people to reduce the risk of
error, misuse, or fraud. This includes separating the responsibilities
for authorizing transactions, processing and recording them, reviewing
the transactions, and handling any related assets so that no one
individual controls all key aspects of a transaction or event.
• Program-related control activities - Management establishes
control activities to achieve program-related objectives, which are the
operations objectives most directly aligned with the entity’s mission.
Examples of program-related objectives include providing services,
awarding federal financial assistance, and performing regulatory
79See paras. OV4.03 through OV4.05 for further discussion of service organizations.
80See paras. 13.04 and 15.02 through 15.06 for further discussion of information and
communication with external parties.
Control Activities
Page 67 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
responsibilities. Control activities may include verifying that services
are provided timely and in accordance with program policies,
reviewing for proper awarding of program benefits or federal financial
assistance, and reviewing to identify when regulated entities have not
complied with applicable laws and regulations.
• Fraud-related control activities - Control activities may be designed
to minimize the ability to conduct or conceal fraud. Examples of such
activities include data validation, supervisory approval, and supporting
documentation to verify identity and eligibility before executing
transactions. Since the inherent motive of fraud is to commit and
conceal the misrepresentation, detecting occurrences of fraud can be
difficult. Management may use data analytics to identify trends and
anomalies that indicate fraudulent activity, such as amounts or types
of goods and services that are outside of the expected range for
normal operations. Additionally, increasing fraud awareness through
training can enable management and other personnel to better detect
potential fraud.
Management identifies and reports detected occurrences of potential
fraud to the appropriate investigatory body and implements corrective
actions, including payment or asset recovery, and disciplinary actions.
Control activities that increase the likelihood of detection and
prosecution can also serve as a deterrent to potential perpetrators of
fraud.
• Improper-payment-related control activities - Management designs
control activities to prevent and detect improper payments. These
control activities may include verification of identity and eligibility
requirements through data matching, data validation, supervisory
approval, and obtaining supporting documentation before making
payments. They may also include recovery audits and activities, such
as postpayment reviews and data analytics to identify improper
payments. Management designs activities to recover overpayments
and report improper payment estimates to regulatory bodies and
stakeholders as required.81
• Compliance-related control activities - Management designs
control activities to achieve compliance with applicable laws and
regulations and to respond when noncompliance is identified.
Compliance objectives may include protecting confidential
81See para. 16.06 for further discussion of improper payment estimates.
Control Activities
Page 68 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
information, including privacy and sensitive information; retaining
communications; and completing various reporting requirements.
Management responds to noncompliance by reporting occurrences to
the appropriate regulatory body as required and taking corrective
action to recover from the event and achieve compliance in the
entity’s processes going forward.
10.05 Control activities can be designed and implemented in an
automated, partially automated, or a manual manner. Automated control
activities may be wholly or partially performed using the entity’s
information technology. Manual control activities are performed by
individuals without relying on the entity’s information technology.
Automated control activities tend to be more reliable because they are
less susceptible to human error and are typically more efficient.
10.06 Management designs information technology control activities to
support the operation and security of the entity’s information technology
and automated business processes. Information technology control
activities consist of general, application, and user control activities.
10.07 Application and user control activities rely on the entity’s
information technology. Application control activities are automated
control activities that are incorporated directly into application software to
achieve the completeness, accuracy, and validity of transactions and
data. Application control activities include control activities over the input,
processing, and output of data. User control activities, sometimes referred
to as information technology-dependent controls, are partially automated
control activities that are performed by individuals using the entity’s
information technology or by relying on the information processed through
technology.82 For example, management may authorize a transaction as
part of an automated workflow or may respond to incidents flagged in
system log reports.
10.08 General control activities are designed to mitigate information
security risks and are the actions established through policies and
procedures that apply to all or a large segment of an entity’s information
technology.83 General control activities support the proper operation of
the entity’s information technology by creating a suitable environment for
82User control activities may also be considered two separate control activities, with a
manual control activity that relies on an automated control activity.
83See paras. 11.07 through 11.17 for further discussion of general control activities over
information technology.
Design of Automated and
Manual Control Activities
Control Activities
Page 69 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
effective operation of application and user control activities. General
control activities can be designed and implemented in either an
automated or a manual manner.
10.09 Common categories of information technology control activities and
how they align with information processing and information security
objectives are illustrated in figure 7.84 The common categories of
information technology control activities listed in figure 7 are meant only
to illustrate the range and variety of control activities that may be useful to
management. This list is not all inclusive and may not include all
information technology control activities that an entity may need.
Figure 7: Common Categories of Information Technology Control Activities
84See para. 10.18 for further discussion of information processing objectives and para.
11.07 for further discussion of information security objectives.
Control Activities
Page 70 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
10.10 Control activities can be either preventive or detective.85 The main
difference between preventive and detective control activities is timing,
that is, when the control activity occurs within an entity’s operations. A
preventive control activity is designed to avoid an unintended event or
result before it occurs. A detective control activity is designed to discover
and timely correct an unintended event or result after it occurs. The
effectiveness of a detective control activity depends on timeliness of the
corrective action to address the unintended event or result. Corrective
action may address the event that occurred or may correct the
deficiencies in the process that led to the event.86
10.11 Management evaluates the purpose of the control activity as well
as the likelihood of an unintended event or result occurring and the
magnitude of impact it would have on the entity in achieving its objectives.
Management may design both preventive and detective control activities
to effectively mitigate the risks to achieving the objectives, particularly in
circumstances where the risk of an unintended event or result occurring is
high. Generally, the higher the risk of an unintended event or result
occurring, the stronger or more robust the control activities need to be to
effectively mitigate the higher risk to acceptable levels.
10.12 Management designs an appropriate mix of preventive and
detective control activities to mitigate risks to an acceptable level,
prioritizing preventive control activities where appropriate. When
designing control activities, management first considers preventive control
activities, as they generally offer the most cost-efficient use of resources
and are generally effective at mitigating fraud and improper payment
risks.87 Management next considers detective control activities and may
design both preventive and detective control activities when necessary to
mitigate a particular risk.
10.13 There may be rare situations where management determines
through its evaluation that a preventive control activity would better
mitigate a particular risk but is unable to implement it. In these situations,
management strengthens and expedites detective control activities and
may also expedite monitoring activities to enable the entity to effectively
mitigate the risk to acceptable levels, considering the risk related to the
85See app. II for examples of preventive and detective control activities.
86See principle 17 for further discussion of remediating deficiencies in internal control.
87See paras. OV4.15 through OV4.17 for further discussion of the benefits and costs of
internal control.
Design of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities
Control Activities
Page 71 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
likelihood of an unintended event or result occurring and the magnitude of
impact it would have on the entity in achieving its objectives.88
10.14 Management designs control activities at the appropriate levels in
the organizational structure.
10.15 Management designs control activities for appropriate mitigation of
risks in the entity’s business processes. Business processes transform
inputs into outputs through a series of transactions or activities to achieve
the entity’s objectives. Management designs entity-level control activities,
business process-level control activities (commonly referred to as
transaction control activities), or both depending on the level of precision
needed so that the entity mitigates risks to an acceptable level related to
its business processes. Entity-level and transaction control activities can
be implemented in an automated, partially automated, or a manual
manner.
10.16 Entity-level control activities are controls designed to mitigate risks
that have a pervasive effect on an entity’s internal control system and
may pertain to multiple components. Entity-level control activities may
include controls related to the entity’s risk assessment process, control
environment, service organizations, management override, and
performance or analytical reviews.
10.17 Transaction control activities are controls that directly mitigate
information processing risks in the entity’s business processes. The term
transaction tends to be associated with business processes addressing
reporting objectives (e.g., financial transactions), while the term activity is
more often associated with business processes addressing operations or
compliance objectives. In the Green Book, “transactions” and “transaction
control activities” can cover both transactions and activities. Management
may design a variety of transaction control activities for business
processes, which may include verifications, reconciliations, authorizations
and approvals, physical control activities, and supervisory control
activities.
88See principle 16 for further discussion of monitoring activities.
Design of Control Activities
at Various Levels
Control Activities
Page 72 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
10.18 When designing transaction control activities, management
evaluates information processing objectives to meet the entity’s
objectives and mitigate related risks.89 Information processing objectives
may include the following:
• Completeness - All transactions and events that occur have been
properly recorded.
• Accuracy - Data relating to transactions and events are properly and
timely recorded.
• Validity - All recorded transactions and events actually occurred, are
related to the entity, and were executed according to prescribed
procedures.
10.19 While the information processing objectives are most often
associated with financial processes and transactions, information
processing objectives can be applied to any activity in an organization.
For example, information processing objectives and related control
activities can be applied to management’s decision-making processes
that use nonfinancial data.
10.20 When designing entity-level and transaction control activities,
management evaluates the level of precision needed for the business
processes to meet the entity’s objectives and mitigate related risks. The
precision of a control activity refers to how exact the control activity will be
in preventing or detecting an unintended event or result. Control activity
precision is closely linked to the entity’s risk tolerance for a particular
objective; a lower risk tolerance will require a more precise control
activity. In determining the necessary level of precision for a control
activity, management evaluates the following:
• Level of aggregation - A control activity that is performed at a more
granular level generally is more precise than one performed at a
higher level. For example, an analysis of obligations by budget object
class normally is more precise than an analysis of total obligations for
the entity.
• Consistency and timing of performance - A control activity that is
performed routinely, consistently, and timely generally is more precise
than one performed sporadically.
89See para. 11.07 for further discussion of information security objectives, which support
the achievement of information processing objectives.
Control Activities
Page 73 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Correlation to relevant business processes - A control activity that
is directly related to a business process generally is more likely to
prevent or detect and correct an error than a control activity that is
only indirectly related.
10.21 Management considers segregation of duties in designing control
activities so that incompatible duties are segregated. Where such
segregation is not practical, management designs alternative control
activities to mitigate the risk.90
10.22 Segregation of duties helps prevent fraud, waste, and abuse in the
internal control system.91 Management considers the need to separate
control activities related to authority, custody, and accounting of
operations to achieve adequate segregation of duties within the entity’s
business processes. Segregation of duties can mitigate the risk of
management override. Management override circumvents existing control
activities and increases risk of fraud, waste, and abuse. Management
mitigates this risk through segregation of duties but cannot absolutely
prevent it because of the risk of collusion, where two or more employees
act together to commit fraud, waste, or abuse.
10.23 If segregation of duties is not practical within a business process
because of limited personnel or other factors, management designs
alternative control activities to mitigate the risk of fraud, waste, or abuse
in the business process.
11.01 Management should design general control activities over
information technology to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives
to acceptable levels.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Response to Risks
• Design of the Entity’s Information Technology
• Design of Appropriate Types of General Control Activities
90See para. 11.16 for further discussion of segregation of duties related to general control
activities.
91See paras. 8.06 through 8.10 for further discussion of fraud, waste, and abuse.
Segregation of Duties
Principle 11 - Design
General Control
Activities over
Information
Technology
Control Activities
Page 74 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
11.02 Management designs general control activities over the entity’s
information technology to mitigate risks to information security.92
Information security is the protection of information or information
technology from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption,
modification, or destruction to provide confidentiality, integrity, and
availability. The reliability of information technology used within business
processes, including automated controls, depends on the selection,
development, and implementation of general control activities over
information technology.
11.03 Management designs information technology to support the entity’s
information system and business processes.93 The entity’s information
system includes both manual and automated processes. Automated
processes are wholly or partially performed using information technology.
11.04 Management designs the entity’s use of information technology in
the information system by considering the defined information
requirements for each of the entity’s business processes. Information
technology incorporated into business processes enables information
related to those processes to become available to the entity on a timelier
basis. Additionally, information technology may be incorporated into
control activities to enhance internal control over the processing and
security of information. Although information technology implies specific
types of control activities, information technology is not a “stand-alone”
control consideration. It is an integral part of most control activities.
11.05 Information technology consists of the infrastructure, platforms, and
software used to automate processes. Infrastructure comprises the
physical information technology resources necessary to run software,
including the hardware and devices used for information processing, data
storage, and network communication. Infrastructure also includes the
logical information technology resources necessary to run multiple virtual
machines on shared physical information technology resources. Platforms
comprise the logical information technology resources necessary to run
application software, including operating systems and related computer
programs, tools, and utilities. Software comprises application software,
92See para. 8.14 for further discussion of information security risks.
93See para. 13.05 for further discussion of the information system. The term information
technology as used in this document is sometimes referred to as information systems or
technology. See para. OV4.09 for clarification of the Green Book’s use of these terms.
Response to Risks
Design of the Entity’s
Information Technology
Control Activities
Page 75 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
access control software, and other software used to perform specific
functions of the entity’s business processes.
11.06 Management designs the information technology infrastructure to
support the entity’s business processes. Information technology requires
a physical infrastructure in which to operate, including communication
networks for linking information technologies, computing resources for
software and platforms to operate, and electricity to power the information
technology. An entity’s information technology infrastructure can be
complex. It may be owned and operated by the entity, shared by different
units within the entity, or outsourced either to service organizations or to
location-independent technology (e.g., cloud computing and storage)
services. In designing the information technology infrastructure,
management considers factors such as the expertise required to develop
and maintain the information technology, costs to develop information
technology internally or outsource, desired level of control over resources,
and impact on continuity of operations.
11.07 Management designs appropriate types of general control activities
to mitigate information security risks.94 General control activities are the
actions established through policies and procedures that apply to all or a
large segment of an entity’s information technology. They support the
proper operation of the entity’s information technology by creating a
suitable environment for effective operation of application and user
control activities.95 When designing general control activities,
management evaluates information security objectives to meet the
defined information requirements. General control activities are designed
to achieve one or more of the following information security objectives:
• Confidentiality - Preserving authorized restrictions on information
access and disclosure, including means for protecting privacy and
sensitive information.
• Integrity - Guarding against improper information modification or
destruction, which includes ensuring information’s nonrepudiation and
authenticity.
94See paras. 10.06 through 10.09 for further discussion of information technology control
activities, including general control activities.
95See para. 10.18 for further discussion of information processing objectives.
Design of Appropriate
Types of General Control
Activities
Control Activities
Page 76 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Availability - Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of
information, thus preventing the disruption of access to or use of
information or information technology.
11.08 The nature, timing, and precision of general control activities will
depend on various factors, such as the complexity of the technology,
sensitivity of information, use of service organizations, use of shared
service or data centers, and risk of the underlying business process being
supported.
11.09 General control activities may be applied at the entity, system, and
business process levels. General control activities include the following:
• Security management - A separate process, addressing all
components of internal control, for responding to risks related to
information security.
• Logical and physical access - Control activities that restrict access
to information technology to authorized users.
• Configuration management - Control activities to develop and
maintain the operating and security features of information technology
and control changes to their configuration.
• Segregation of duties - Separating control activity responsibilities
related to information technology to prevent individuals from
controlling all critical stages of a process or overriding automated
processes.
• Contingency planning - Control activities that maintain the continuity
of operations and rely on information technology, including
contingency plans for recovery after a disruption of service.
11.10 Security management is the ongoing process for mitigating
information security risks as part of the entity’s overall internal control
system (sometimes referred to as a security management program). This
ongoing process covers all components of internal control related to
information security risks.96
11.11 Logical and physical access control activities include restricting
access or detecting inappropriate access to information and information
96See para. 8.20 for further discussion of establishing a separate process for responding
to information security risks.
Control Activities
Page 77 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
technology.97 They protect information technology resources against
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or
destruction, whether from malicious intent or error. Logical access control
activities require users to authenticate themselves and restrict them to the
applications or functions commensurate with their assigned
responsibilities, supporting an appropriate segregation of duties.98
Management may grant different permissions to employees and end
users, including the rights to create, read, edit, or delete a file; execute a
program; and retrieve or update information in a database. Management
designs other control activities to promptly update access rights when
employees change job functions or leave the entity. Physical access
control activities involve restricting physical access to information and
information technology, including the physical infrastructure, and
protecting it from intentional or unintentional loss or impairment.
11.12 Configuration management control activities involve the
identification and management of operating and security features for
information technology (i.e., infrastructure, platforms, and software)
throughout the technology development process. Management may use a
technology development methodology to provide a structure for a new
information technology design by outlining specific phases and
documenting requirements, approvals, and checkpoints within control
activities over the development, maintenance, and change of technology.
Management evaluates the objectives and risks of the new technology in
designing control activities over its technology development methodology.
11.13 Control activities for developing information technology, commonly
referred to as systems development controls, prevent the use of
unauthorized or untested systems. Management may internally develop
information technology, acquire it from suppliers, or outsource its
development to service organizations. Management incorporates
methodologies for acquisition into its development process and designs
control activities over the selection, ongoing development, and
maintenance of information technology. For a system developed
internally, management designs control activities to mitigate risks in
outsourced technology before it is incorporated into the entity’s business
processes. Management evaluates the unique risks that using a service
organization, search engine, or artificial intelligence software present to
97See app. II for further discussion of network security measures when information
technologies connect or interact.
98See app. II for further discussion of authentication control activities.
Control Activities
Page 78 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
the completeness, accuracy, and validity of information submitted to and
received from the organization or software system.99
11.14 Control activities for maintaining information technology include
identifying vulnerabilities to patch and other functional updates to be
made. Management continuously monitors the entity’s information
technology to establish a baseline for evaluating performance, detecting
underlying deficiencies before they negatively impact users, collecting
data when risks occur, and enabling continuous improvement.
Vulnerability management is the process of identifying system
vulnerabilities where change may be necessary for remediation.
Management may identify vulnerabilities through continuous monitoring of
characteristics such as the type of technology used, physical entry points,
and trends in user activity. Management may use monitoring software
that automatically notifies appropriate personnel when a breach or
irregularity is identified. Management may also perform penetration
testing of the system to identify vulnerabilities that a hacker might exploit.
Patch management is the process of applying platform and software
updates to close security vulnerabilities and improve functionality.
Management implements control activities to periodically or automatically
update antivirus software, apply patches to correct security issues, and
scan for and remove unauthorized access points.
11.15 Control activities for changing information technology prevent
unauthorized or untested modifications to existing systems. To
reasonably assure that changes to the configuration of information
technology are necessary, work as intended, and do not cause loss of
data or program integrity, changes go through a formal change
management process in which they are authorized, documented, tested,
and independently reviewed. This may involve requiring authorization of
change requests; reviewing the changes, approvals, and testing results;
and designing protocols to determine whether changes are made
properly. Depending on the size and complexity of the entity, initial
development or acquisition of information technology and subsequent
changes to the information technology may be included in one
methodology or two separate methodologies.
99Artificial intelligences (AI) are systems that are taught to solve problems, execute tasks,
or generate content that normally require human intelligence by using inputs from a
dataset to produce the requested outputs. Where entities rely on AI to inform, influence, or
execute decisions or actions, management designs control activities to manage risks
related to the data sources and subsequent data processing.
Control Activities
Page 79 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
11.16 Segregation of duties control activities help prevent fraud, waste,
and abuse from being executed using information technology in the
internal control system and mitigate the risk of management override of
automated processes. Management considers the need to separate
responsibilities for control activities related to the entity’s information
technology so that one individual does not control all critical stages of a
process. This may include separating responsibilities for designing,
testing, and implementing new systems or for processing transactions
and managing databases.100
11.17 Contingency planning protects critical and sensitive data against
loss and allows for critical operations to continue without disruption or be
promptly resumed when unexpected events occur. Maintaining
technology through contingency planning often includes backup and
recovery procedures, as well as continuity of operations plans, depending
on the risks and consequences of a full or partial power systems outage
or other disruption of service. Recovery plans are tested periodically in
disaster simulation exercises to determine whether they will work as
intended.
100See paras. 10.21 through 10.23 for further discussion of segregation of duties.
Control Activities
Page 80 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
12.01 Management should implement control activities through policies
and procedures.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Documentation of Control Activities Through Policies and Procedures
• Periodic Review of Control Activities
12.02 Management establishes control activities by documenting in
policies what is expected and in procedures specified actions that
implement policies, to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to
acceptable levels [documentation requirement].101
12.03 Management documents in policies and procedures for each unit
within the entity’s organizational structure its responsibility for a business
process’s objectives and related risks and control activity design,
implementation, and operating effectiveness.102 Each unit, with guidance
from management, determines the policies necessary to operate the
business process based on the objectives and related risks. Each unit
also documents policies and procedures in the appropriate level of detail
to allow management to effectively monitor the control activity. The
documentation may appear in various forms, such as management
directives, administrative policies, or operating manuals.
12.04 Those in key roles for the unit may further define policies through
day-to-day procedures, depending on the rate of change in the operating
environment and complexity of the business process. Procedures may
include the timing of when a control activity occurs and any follow-up
corrective actions to be performed by competent personnel if deficiencies
are identified.103 Management communicates the policies and procedures
entity-wide so that personnel can implement the control activities for their
assigned responsibilities.
101See paras. 3.09 through 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal
control system.
102See paras. 3.02 through 3.05 for further discussion of organizational structure.
103See paras. 17.06 through 17.08 for further discussion of corrective actions.
Principle 12 -
Implement Control
Activities
Documentation of
Control Activities
Through Policies
and Procedures
Control Activities
Page 81 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
12.05 Management reviews policies, procedures, and related control
activities on a periodic and ongoing basis for continued relevance and
effectiveness in achieving the entity’s objectives or mitigating related
risks.104 If there is a significant change in an entity’s process,
management reviews this process in a timely manner after the change to
determine that the control activities are designed and implemented
appropriately. Changes may occur in personnel, business processes, or
information technology. A new law or regulation may change an entity’s
objectives or how an entity is to achieve an objective. Further, in the
federal environment, this may occur through government-wide policy or
guidance issued by entities like the Office of Management and Budget,
Office of Personnel Management, and the Department of the Treasury.
Management considers these changes in its periodic and ongoing
reviews. Management also considers the results of its monitoring
activities to determine whether control activities are designed and
implemented effectively.105
104See paras. 16.04 through 16.08 for further discussion of monitoring the effectiveness of
internal control.
105See paras. 16.09 and 17.05 for further discussion of management’s evaluation of the
results of monitoring and identified internal control issues.
Periodic Review of Control
Activities
Information and Communication
Page 82 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
Management uses quality information to support the internal control
system. Effective information and communication are vital for an entity to
achieve its objectives. Entity management needs access to relevant and
reliable communication related to internal as well as external events.
Information and communication support the functioning of all components
of internal control and achieving the entity’s operations, reporting, and
compliance objectives.
Principles
13. Management should obtain or generate relevant, quality information
and use it to support the functioning of the internal control system.
14. Management should internally communicate relevant and quality
information, including objectives and responsibilities for internal
control, necessary to support the functioning of the internal control
system.
15. Management should communicate relevant and quality information
with appropriate external parties regarding matters impacting the
functioning of the internal control system.
Information and Communication
Information and Communication
Page 83 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
13.01 Management should obtain or generate relevant, quality
information and use it to support the functioning of the internal control
system.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Identification of Information Requirements
• Relevant Data from Reliable Sources
• Data Processed into Quality Information
13.02 Management designs a process that uses the entity’s objectives
and related risks to identify the information requirements needed to
support the internal control system. Information requirements consider the
needs of both internal and external users. Management defines the
identified information requirements at the relevant level and requisite
specificity for appropriate personnel.
13.03 Management identifies information requirements in an iterative and
ongoing process that occurs throughout the design, implementation, and
operation of an effective internal control system. An entity’s controls
within the five components of internal control establish information
requirements. As change in the entity and its objectives and risks occurs,
management changes information requirements as needed to meet these
modified objectives and address these modified risks. Management
establishes information requirements through policies and procedures,
with clear responsibility and accountability for the quality of information.
These information requirements are communicated both internally and
externally, such as with service organizations.
13.04 Management obtains or generates relevant data from reliable
internal and external sources in a timely manner based on the identified
information requirements. Relevant data have a logical connection with,
or bearing upon, the identified information requirements. Reliable internal
and external sources provide data that are reasonably free from error and
bias and faithfully represent what they purport to represent. Management
evaluates both internal and external sources of data for reliability.
Management obtains relevant data through a variety of forms, including
using manual input or compilation, using information technology, or
Principle 13 - Use
Quality Information
Identification of
Information Requirements
Relevant Data from
Reliable Sources
Information and Communication
Page 84 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
coordinating with other entities to obtain or access data.106 Sources of
data can be operational, reporting, or compliance related. Management
obtains data on a timely basis so that they can be used for effective
monitoring.
13.05 Management processes relevant data obtained or generated from
reliable sources into quality information through the entity’s information
system. The entity’s information system comprises the people, processes,
data, and information technology that management uses to obtain,
generate, communicate, or dispose of information to support the entity’s
business processes.
13.06 Management develops the entity’s information system to obtain,
generate, and process relevant data into quality information to meet the
identified information requirements needed to support the internal control
system. Information processing can be manual, automated through the
use of information technology, or a combination of both.
13.07 Management evaluates the processed information to determine
whether it is quality information. Quality information meets the identified
information requirements when relevant data from reliable sources are
used. Quality information is appropriate, current, complete, accurate,
accessible, verifiable, retained as appropriate, and provided on a timely
basis. Management considers these characteristics and the information
processing and information security objectives in evaluating processed
information, and makes revisions when necessary, so that the information
is quality information.107 Management uses the quality information to
make informed decisions and evaluate the entity’s performance in
achieving key objectives, addressing risks, and fulfilling internal control
responsibilities.
106See app. II for examples of sources of data that may be helpful to management.
107See paras. 10.18 and 11.07 for further discussion of information processing and
information security objectives.
Data Processed into
Quality Information
Information and Communication
Page 85 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
14.01 Management should internally communicate relevant and quality
information, including objectives and responsibilities for internal control,
necessary to support the functioning of the internal control system.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Communication Throughout the Entity
• Appropriate Methods of Communication
14.02 Management communicates relevant and quality information
throughout the entity using established reporting lines. Communication is
the continual, iterative process of providing, sharing, and obtaining
necessary information. Quality information is communicated down,
across, up, and around reporting lines to all levels of the entity.
14.03 Management communicates relevant and quality information down
and across reporting lines to enable personnel to understand and perform
key roles in achieving objectives, addressing risks, and supporting the
internal control system. In these communications, management assigns
the internal control responsibilities for key roles. Communications support
the functioning of all five components of internal control and the
achievement of the entity’s objectives. Communications may include legal
and regulatory requirements, ethical values, the entity’s objectives,
identified risks, policies and procedures that support personnel in
performing their internal control responsibilities, and the results of
monitoring activities that may include corrective actions to remediate
internal control deficiencies.
14.04 Management obtains relevant and quality information about the
entity’s business processes that flows up the reporting lines from
personnel to help management achieve the entity’s objectives.
Information communicated by personnel may include internal control
issues; this communication helps management identify internal control
deficiencies and take corrective action.
14.05 The oversight body obtains relevant and quality information that
flows up the reporting lines from management and other personnel.
Information relating to internal control communicated to the oversight
body includes significant matters about adherence to, changes in, or
Principle 14 -
Communicate
Internally
Communication
Throughout the Entity
Information and Communication
Page 86 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
issues arising from the internal control system. This upward
communication is necessary for the effective oversight of internal control.
14.06 Personnel use separate reporting lines to go around upward
reporting lines when these lines are compromised. Laws and regulations
may require entities to establish separate lines of communication, such as
whistleblower and ethics hotlines, for communicating confidential
information. Management informs employees of these separate reporting
lines, how they operate, how they are to be used, and how the
information will remain confidential.
14.07 Management selects appropriate methods for communicating
internally. Management considers a variety of factors in selecting an
appropriate method of communication. Some factors to consider follow:
• Audience - The intended recipients of the communication.
• Nature of information - The purpose and type of information being
communicated.
• Availability - Information readily available to the audience when
needed.
• Cost - The resources used to communicate the information.
• Legal or regulatory requirements - Requirements in laws and
regulations that may impact communication.
14.08 Based on consideration of the factors, management selects
appropriate methods of communication. Management evaluates the
entity’s methods of communication on a periodic and ongoing basis so
that the organization has the appropriate tools to communicate quality
information throughout the entity on a timely basis.
Appropriate Methods of
Communication
Information and Communication
Page 87 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
15.01 Management should communicate relevant and quality information
with appropriate external parties regarding matters impacting the
functioning of the internal control system.108
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Communication with External Parties
• Appropriate Methods of Communication
15.02 Management communicates with, and obtains relevant and quality
information from, appropriate external parties using established reporting
lines. Open two-way external reporting lines allow for this communication.
External parties may include service organizations, suppliers, contractors,
regulators, regulated entities, external auditors, federal entities, state and
local governments, grantees, and the public.
15.03 Management communicates relevant and quality information
externally through reporting lines so that appropriate external parties can
help the entity achieve its objectives, address related risks, and support
its internal control system. Information communicated by management
includes significant matters relating to the entity’s events and activities
that impact its internal control system. For instance, information
communicated to service organizations may include information on the
entity’s objectives and ethical values, identified risks, internal control
practices to consider, and performance metrics. Information
communicated for the entity to achieve program-related objectives may
include information on eligibility, reporting, and audit requirements for
recipients of federal financial assistance and legal and regulatory
requirements to regulated entities.
15.04 Management obtains information through reporting lines from
external parties. Information communicated to management includes
significant matters relating to risks, changes, or issues that impact the
entity’s internal control system. Communication may also include
108External communication is viewed distinctly from the external reporting objective, as
discussed in para. 6.03. Reporting objectives require all five components of internal
control. In contrast, the information and communication component supports the
functioning of all components of reporting objectives, as well as operations and
compliance objectives.
Principle 15 -
Communicate
Externally
Communication with
External Parties
Information and Communication
Page 88 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
information for the entity to achieve program-related objectives. These
communications are necessary for the effective operation of internal
control. Management evaluates external information obtained against the
characteristics of quality information and information processing
objectives and takes any necessary actions so that the information is
quality information.109
15.05 The oversight body obtains information through reporting lines from
external parties. Information communicated to the oversight body includes
significant matters relating to risks, changes, and issues that impact the
entity’s internal control system. This communication is necessary for the
effective oversight of internal control.
15.06 External parties use separate reporting lines when external
reporting lines are compromised. Laws and regulations may require
entities to establish separate lines of communication, such as
whistleblower and ethics hotlines, for communicating confidential
information. Management informs external parties of these separate
reporting lines, how they operate, how they are to be used, and how the
information will remain confidential.
15.07 Management selects appropriate methods for communicating
externally. Management considers a variety of factors in selecting an
appropriate method of communication. Some factors to consider follow:
• Audience - The intended recipients of the communication.
• Nature of information - The purpose and type of information being
communicated.
• Availability - Information readily available to the audience when
needed.
• Cost - The resources used to communicate the information.
• Legal or regulatory requirements - Requirements in laws and
regulations that may impact communication.
15.08 Based on consideration of the factors, management selects
appropriate methods of communication. Management evaluates the
entity’s methods of communication on a periodic and ongoing basis so
109See para. 10.18 for further discussion of information processing objectives.
Appropriate Methods of
Communication
Information and Communication
Page 89 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
that the organization has the appropriate tools to communicate quality
information throughout and outside of the entity on a timely basis.
15.09 Government entities not only report to the head of the government,
legislators, and regulators but to the public as well. In the federal
government, entities not only report to the President and Congress but
also to the public. Entities consider appropriate methods for
communicating with such a broad audience.
Monitoring
Page 90 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
Since internal control is a dynamic process that has to be adapted
continually to the risks and changes an entity faces, monitoring of the
internal control system is essential in helping internal control remain
aligned with changing objectives, environments, laws, resources, and
risks from both internal and external sources. Internal control monitoring
assesses the quality of performance over time and promptly resolves the
findings of audits and other reviews. Corrective actions are a necessary
complement to monitoring activities for achieving objectives.
Principles
16. Management should establish and operate monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
17. Management should remediate identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
Monitoring
Monitoring
Page 91 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
16.01 Management should establish and operate monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Establishment of a Baseline
• Internal Control System Monitoring
• Evaluation of Results
16.02 Monitoring activities evaluate whether each of the five components
of internal control, including controls to effect the principles within each
component, is present and functioning or if change is needed.
Management establishes a baseline to monitor the internal control
system. The baseline is the current state of the internal control system
compared against management’s design of the internal control system.
The baseline represents the difference between the criteria for the design
of the internal control system and the condition of the internal control
system at a specific point in time. In other words, the baseline consists of
issues and deficiencies identified in an entity’s internal control system.
16.03 Once established, management can use the baseline as criteria in
evaluating the internal control system and make changes to reduce the
difference between the criteria and condition. Management reduces this
difference in one of two ways. Management either changes the design of
the internal control system to better address the objectives and risks of
the entity or improves the operating effectiveness of the internal control
system. As part of monitoring, management determines when to revise
the baseline to reflect changes in the internal control system.
16.04 Management monitors the internal control system through ongoing
monitoring and separate evaluations.110 Ongoing monitoring is built into
the entity’s operations, performed continually, and responsive to change.
Separate evaluations are performed periodically and may provide
feedback on the effectiveness of ongoing monitoring. Many of the
110Monitoring the internal control system includes monitoring the effectiveness of any
separate processes within the system that management establishes as part of its risk
response, such as those over improper payments, fraud, information security, and rapidly
implemented or substantially changed programs.
Principle 16 - Perform
Monitoring Activities
Establishment of a
Baseline
Internal Control System
Monitoring
Monitoring
Page 92 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
methods and tools described below may be used for both ongoing
monitoring and separate evaluations, depending on when and how they
are implemented.111
16.05 Management performs ongoing monitoring of the design and
operating effectiveness of the internal control system as part of the
normal course of operations. Ongoing monitoring includes regular
management and supervisory activities, comparisons, reconciliations,
trend analysis, data analytics, activities to identify improper payments or
potential fraud, testing, and other routine actions. Ongoing monitoring
may include automated tools, which can increase objectivity and
efficiency by electronically compiling evaluations of controls and
transactions or by automating data analytics.
16.06 Management uses separate evaluations to monitor the design and
operating effectiveness of the overall internal control system at a specific
time or of a specific function or process. The scope and frequency of
separate evaluations depend primarily on the assessment of risks, risk
responses, evolving technology, identification of new risks or deficiencies,
results of ongoing monitoring, and rate of change within the entity and its
environment. Management may also increase the frequency of separate
evaluations when management rapidly implements a new program or
substantially changes an existing one, such as emergency assistance
programs. Separate evaluations include observations, inquiries, reviews,
improper payment estimates,112 and other examinations, as appropriate.
These evaluate whether controls to effect principles across the entity are
designed, implemented, and operating effectively. Separate evaluations
may also take the form of self-assessments, which include cross-
operating unit or cross-functional evaluations.
16.07 Management also uses the results of separate evaluations
performed in connection with internal and external audits, investigations,
and other evaluations that may involve the review of internal control
111Some types of control activities can also be used as a monitoring activity, depending on
when and how they are implemented. See para. 10.04 for examples of common
categories of control activities and app. II for guidance on distinguishing between
monitoring activities and control activities and examples of control activities that may also
be implemented as monitoring activities.
112Management estimates improper payments to understand the scope of the problem
and evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls in addressing improper payment risk.
Management may estimate improper payments more frequently than mandated by law or
when programs are rapidly implemented or substantially changed. See para. 8.13 for
further discussion of improper payment risk assessments.
Monitoring
Page 93 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
design and testing of internal controls to help identify issues in the internal
control system. These audits and other evaluations may be mandated by
law and are performed by internal auditors, external auditors, inspectors
general, and other reviewers. Separate evaluations provide greater
objectivity when performed by reviewers who do not have responsibility
for the activities being evaluated.
16.08 Management retains responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness
of controls performed by service organizations that are necessary for the
entity to achieve its control objectives. Management uses ongoing
monitoring, separate evaluations, or a combination of the two to obtain
reasonable assurance of the operating effectiveness of a service
organization’s internal controls over the assigned process.113 Monitoring
activities related to service organizations may include the use of work
performed by external parties, such as service auditors, and reviewed by
management.
16.09 Management evaluates and documents the results of ongoing
monitoring and separate evaluations to identify internal control issues
[documentation requirement].114 Management uses this evaluation to
determine the effectiveness of the internal control system. Differences
between the results of monitoring activities and the previously established
baseline may indicate internal control issues, including undocumented
changes in the internal control system or potential internal control
deficiencies.
16.10 Management identifies changes in the internal control system that
either have occurred or are needed because of changes in the entity and
its environment. External parties can also help management identify
issues in the internal control system. For example, complaints from the
public, regulator comments, and findings from investigations may indicate
areas in the internal control system that need improvement. Other
external parties that interact with the entity, including relevant suppliers,
contractors, and service organizations, may collaborate with management
to identify and respond to issues in the entity’s business processes and
related internal controls. Management considers whether current controls
address the identified issues and modifies controls if necessary.
113See paras. OV4.03 through OV4.05 for further discussion of service organizations.
114See paras. 3.09 through 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal
control system.
Evaluation of
Results
Monitoring
Page 94 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
17.01 Management should remediate identified internal control
deficiencies on a timely basis.
Attributes
The following attributes contribute to the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of this principle:
• Reporting of Issues
• Evaluation of Issues
• Corrective Actions
17.02 Personnel report internal control issues through established
reporting lines to the appropriate internal and external parties on a timely
basis to enable the entity to promptly evaluate those issues and complete
corrective action to remediate issues that rise to the level of internal
control deficiencies.115
17.03 Personnel may identify internal control issues while performing their
assigned internal control responsibilities. Personnel communicate these
issues internally to the person in the key role responsible for the internal
control or associated process and, when appropriate, to at least one level
of management above that individual. Depending on the nature of the
issues, personnel may consider reporting certain issues to the oversight
body or an established hotline. Such issues may include
• issues that cut across the organizational structure or extend outside
the entity to service organizations, contractors, or suppliers and
• issues that may not be remediated because of the interests of
management, such as sensitive information regarding fraud or other
illegal acts.116
17.04 Depending on the entity’s regulatory or compliance requirements,
the entity may also be required to report issues externally to appropriate
external parties, such as the legislators, regulators, and standard-setting
115See paras. 14.02 through 14.06 for further discussion of internal reporting lines and
paras. 15.02 through 15.06 for further discussion of external reporting lines.
116See paras. 8.06 through 8.07 for further discussion of fraud.
Principle 17 -
Evaluate Issues and
Remediate
Deficiencies
Reporting of Issues
Monitoring
Page 95 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
bodies that establish laws, rules, regulations, or standards to which the
entity is subject.
17.05 Management evaluates and documents internal control issues and
determines appropriate corrective actions for internal control deficiencies,
including those reported from internal and external audits and
evaluations, on a timely basis [documentation requirement].117
Management evaluates issues identified through monitoring activities or
reported by personnel to determine whether any of the issues rise to the
level of an internal control deficiency. Internal control deficiencies require
further evaluation and remediation by management. An internal control
deficiency can be in the design, implementation, or operating
effectiveness of the internal control and its related process.118
Management determines from the type of internal control deficiency the
appropriate corrective actions to remediate it on a timely basis.
Management assigns responsibility and delegates authority for
remediating the deficiency.
17.06 Management completes and documents corrective actions to
remediate internal control deficiencies, including those reported from
internal and external audits and evaluations, on a timely basis
[documentation requirement].119 Depending on the nature of the
deficiency, either the oversight body or management oversees the prompt
remediation of deficiencies by communicating the corrective actions to the
appropriate level of the organizational structure and delegating authority
for completing corrective actions to appropriate personnel.
Documentation of corrective actions may include
• root cause analysis,
• planned actions,
• interim milestones,
• completion dates,
117See paras. 3.09 through 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal
control system.
118See paras. OV3.07 through OV3.11 for further discussion of evaluation of internal
control deficiencies.
119See paras. 3.09 through 3.12 for further discussion of documentation of the internal
control system.
Evaluation of Issues
Corrective Actions
Monitoring
Page 96 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• measurable indicators of compliance and remediation to assess and
validate progress throughout the remediation process, and
• the entity official responsible for monitoring the status of the corrective
actions.
17.07 Corrective actions may include changes to controls within each of
the five components of internal control, such as providing training on
identified risks or modifying or adding control activities. Management also
updates the entity’s periodic risk assessment based on the results of
monitoring activities and may consider performing ongoing risk
assessments when internal control deficiencies are identified.120
17.08 Corrective actions also include remediating audit and evaluation
findings.121 The remediation process begins when audit or other review
results are reported to management. It is completed only after action has
been taken that (1) corrects identified deficiencies, (2) produces
improvements, or (3) demonstrates that the findings and
recommendations do not warrant management action. Management, with
oversight from the oversight body, monitors the status of remediation
efforts so that they are completed on a timely basis.
120See para. 7.02 for further discussion of periodic and ongoing risk assessments.
121See para. 16.07 for further discussion of separate evaluations of the internal control
system that may result in audit and evaluation findings.
Appendix I: Requirements
Page 97 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
The following is a list of the requirements included in the Green Book.
The five components of internal control must be effectively designed,
implemented, and operating, and operating together in an integrated
manner, for an internal control system to be effective. (paragraph
OV2.04)
Principle Requirements
The 17 principles support the effective design, implementation, and
operation of the associated components and represent requirements
necessary to establish an effective internal control system. The 17
principles required by the Green Book are as follows:
1. The oversight body and management should demonstrate a
commitment to integrity and ethical values.
2. The oversight body should oversee the entity’s internal control
system.
3. Management should establish an organizational structure, assign
responsibility, and delegate authority to achieve the entity’s
objectives.
4. Management should demonstrate a commitment to recruit, develop,
and retain competent individuals.
5. Management should evaluate performance and hold individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
6. Management should define objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and define risk tolerances.
7. Management should identify, analyze, and respond to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
8. Management should consider risks related to fraud, improper
payments, and information security when identifying, analyzing, and
responding to risks.
9. Management should identify, analyze, and respond to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
10. Management should design control activities to mitigate risks to
achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable levels.
11. Management should design general control activities over information
technology to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to
acceptable levels.
Appendix I: Requirements
Appendix I: Requirements
Page 98 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
12. Management should implement control activities through policies and
procedures.
13. Management should obtain or generate relevant, quality information
and use it to support the functioning of the internal control system.
14. Management should internally communicate relevant and quality
information, including objectives and responsibilities for internal
control, necessary to support the functioning of the internal control
system.
15. Management should communicate relevant and quality information
with appropriate external parties regarding matters impacting the
functioning of the internal control system.
16. Management should establish and operate monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
17. Management should remediate identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
Documentation Requirements
Documentation is a necessary part of an effective internal control system.
The level and nature of documentation may vary based on the size of the
entity and the complexity of the processes it performs. Management
exercises judgment in determining the extent or type of documentation
that is needed. Documentation is required for the effective design,
implementation, and operating effectiveness of an entity’s internal control
system. (paragraph OV2.11) Management develops and maintains
documentation of its internal control system. (paragraph 3.09)
Documentation of the internal control system is further discussed at
principle 3.
The Green Book also includes the following minimum documentation
requirements:
• If management determines that a principle is not relevant,
management supports that determination with documentation that
includes the rationale for how, in the absence of that principle, the
associated component could be designed, implemented, and
operated effectively. (paragraph OV2.06)
• Management documents the results of the risk assessments,
including the identification, analysis, and response to risks, that are
completed on both a periodic and ongoing basis. This includes
documentation of the consideration of risks related to fraud, improper
Appendix I: Requirements
Page 99 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
payments, information security, and significant internal and external
changes that could impact the internal control system. (paragraph
7.15)
• Management documents a change assessment process for
identifying, analyzing, and responding to risks related to significant
changes so that the internal control system can be quickly adapted as
needed to respond to significant changes as they occur. (paragraph
9.05)
• Management establishes control activities by documenting in policies
what is expected and in procedures specified actions that implement
policies, to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to
acceptable levels. (paragraph 12.02)
• Management evaluates and documents the results of ongoing
monitoring and separate evaluations to identify internal control issues.
(paragraph 16.09)
• Management evaluates and documents internal control issues and
determines appropriate corrective actions for internal control
deficiencies, including those reported from internal and external audits
and evaluations, on a timely basis. (paragraph 17.05)
• Management completes and documents corrective actions to
remediate internal control deficiencies, including those reported from
internal and external audits and evaluations, on a timely basis.
(paragraph 17.06)
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 100 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 101 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Overview
This appendix provides examples of preventive and detective control
activities that management may consider to mitigate risks to achieving the
entity’s objectives to acceptable levels. It also provides examples of data
sources that may be helpful in implementing the control activities.
This appendix is designed to supplement the control activities component
and includes the following:
• Types of Activities
• Examples of Preventive and Detective Control Activities
• Sources of Data
As part of the control activities component, management designs an
appropriate mix of preventive and detective control activities to mitigate
risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable levels, prioritizing
preventive control activities where appropriate.1 A preventive control
activity is designed to avoid an unintended event or result before it
occurs. A detective control activity is designed to discover and timely
correct an unintended event or result after it occurs.
The control activities component lists common categories of control
activities.2 This appendix provides examples of control activities that, for
purposes of illustration, are categorized as either preventive or detective
control activities. However, activities can often be implemented as
preventive control activities, as detective control activities, or even as
monitoring activities, depending on when or how they are implemented.3
Control activities and monitoring activities serve different purposes.
Control activities are the actions management establishes through
policies and procedures to mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s
objectives to acceptable levels. Monitoring activities evaluate whether
each of the five components of internal control, including control activities
to effect the principles within each component, is present and functioning,
or if change is needed. For example, personnel may perform a control
activity to reconcile inventory, which identifies, investigates, and resolves
1See paras. 10.10 through 10.13 for further discussion of the design of preventive and
detective control activities.
2See para. 10.04 for further discussion of common categories of control activities.
3See principle 16 for further discussion of monitoring activities.
Types of Activities
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 102 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
individual discrepancies. Meanwhile, management may perform a
corresponding monitoring activity to inspect documentation that the
reconciliation was performed appropriately, which evaluates the
effectiveness of the control activity and notes any trends in the
discrepancies identified to address a deficiency in the process.
When distinguishing between a control activity and a monitoring activity,
management considers the underlying details of the activity, especially
where the activity involves some level of supervisory review. Supervisory
reviews are not automatically classified as monitoring activities, and it
may be a matter of judgment whether a review is classified as a control
activity or a monitoring activity.
The preventive and detective control activities listed below illustrate a
variety of activities that may be useful to management and are designed
to supplement the control activities component. The examples presented
in this appendix are not all inclusive and may not include all control
activities that an entity may need. The control activities listed below are
categorized as either preventive or detective for the purposes of
illustration, but they can often be implemented as either, depending on
when or how they are implemented. Each entity tailors its control activities
based on its specific needs and assessed risks, which may include
activities not listed below.
Preventive Control Activities
Training on Internal Control
Management provides periodic and ongoing training to develop the
knowledge, skills, and abilities of its personnel to meet changing
organizational needs and to fulfill their internal control responsibilities.
Training may be provided on how internal control contributes to program
objectives, internal control responsibilities, how to administer internal
controls, security of information technology and data, and other
specialized areas as needed. Management also provides training to
increase awareness of identified risks, such as fraud awareness training
or training on the entity’s plan to address risks related to potential
changes, such as emergency assistance programs. Management trains
those in specialized information technology roles in addition to those who
perform various processes using information technology. For example,
management may provide information security training to all personnel
interacting with information technology, which may be tailored to the
specific processes they perform.
Examples of
Preventive and
Detective Control
Activities
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 103 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Logical Access Control Activities
Management uses logical access control activities to prevent
unauthorized use of and changes to the system. Examples of these
controls include network segmentation, use of passwords or other
authentication mechanisms, and granting of different levels and types of
permissions to different types of system users and administrators.
Identity-Verification Control Activities
Management uses identity-verification control activities to confirm that
personnel and external parties are who they say they are before providing
services or benefits. Management can choose from a range of identity-
verification control activities and apply them uniformly to all verifications
or adjust control activities based on risks that each verification presents.
Management may consider offering multiple methods for authorized
individuals to verify their identities, such as in person, remote physical
verification, and through knowledge-based questions. Management may
also require applicants for program benefits to submit photo identification,
documentation, and other personal information to verify against each
other and with authoritative databases before distributing funds to the
individuals.
Eligibility-Verification Control Activities
Prior to providing services to program beneficiaries, management uses
verification control activities to confirm the eligibility of individual
applicants based on established criteria. The entity may leverage data
collected internally or from external sources to determine eligibility and
confirm self-certified information.
Preventive Data Analytics
Management uses preventive data analytics to identify relationships,
patterns, discrepancies, and anomalies in data to make decisions and
identify potential issues, such as indicators of fraudulent activity or
improper payments, to avoid unintended events or results before they
occur. Examples of preventive data analytics follow.
• Data matching - Management may apply data matching to verify key
information, such as self-reported data, information necessary to
determine identity or eligibility, and the validity of transactions. Data
matching is a process in which information from one source is
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 104 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
compared with information from another, such as government or third-
party databases, to identify any inconsistencies.
• Reasonableness checks - Management may apply reasonableness
checks to a dataset to determine whether the data fall within an
accepted range or consist of accepted values. For example, an entity
verifies that an applicant’s residence is located within a disaster area
before providing disaster relief assistance. Additionally, users using
foreign addresses, internet protocol addresses, or bank accounts may
also be subject to further review.
• Data validation - Data validation control activities (also known as
system edit checks) are instructions programmed into an information
technology system to help reasonably assure that data meet
requirements before being accepted for further processing and before
payments are made. Management establishes requirements that data
be complete, accurate, valid, and recorded in the proper format, and
may implement checks to identify missing data, incorrect data, or
erroneous dates. Data validation control activities can be used to
compare data entries to requirements and automatically deny entries
that do not meet requirements or flag them for further review.
• Predictive analytics - Predictive-analytics technologies include a
variety of automated processes and tools that can be used to identify
particular types of behavior, including potential for fraud or improper
payments, before transactions are completed.
Automated Approvals
Management uses automated approvals to authorize transactions without
human intervention, which may provide consistency in the review process
and expedite approvals that present a lower risk to the entity.
Management updates the rules or coding of data analytics performed
within the automated process as needed, such as when changes are
made to a program or to eligibility criteria. Management also incorporates
manual review in order to exercise appropriate judgment in addressing
any issues flagged.
Unique Identifiers to Prevent Duplication
Management establishes a unique identifier for each transaction or
beneficiary to reduce the possibility of providing duplicative services or
benefits. Unique identifiers for transactions may include using unique
invoice numbers and purchase order numbers to help identify
transactions. Unique identifiers for beneficiaries may include an
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 105 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
individual’s Social Security number; employer identification number; or
other identification number, such as a state driver’s license or passport
number. Management can then put controls in place to only process the
appropriate number of claims per unique identifier and limit the possibility
of an individual receiving duplicative services or benefits in one eligible
period.
Detective Control Activities
Postpayment Reviews
Management uses postpayment reviews to determine whether payments
were made appropriately to eligible recipients in correct amounts and
whether recipients used them in accordance with law and applicable
agreements. Examples of postpayment reviews include the following:
• Recovery audits - Management may review disbursements or
financial transactions of the entity, and the related data, to identify and
recover overpayments.
• Confirmation of self-certified information - For self-certified information
that was relied on to determine eligibility or identity, management may
subsequently collect supporting documentation and conduct a
postpayment review. Supporting documents might include personal or
business identification, tax information, employment confirmation, or
income verification documents.
• Data matching - Management may conduct postpayment data
matching to verify information, such as self-certified data and other
key data, and confirm eligibility for those who have been enrolled in
programs or received benefits to detect potential fraud or improper
payments. Management conducts data matching using internal or
external sources to verify data electronically. In addition to verifying
initial eligibility, ongoing data matching can enable programs that
provide recurring benefits to identify changes in key information that
could affect continued eligibility and prevent future improper
payments.
Reconciliations
Management performs reconciliations to confirm that transactions are
processed, recorded, and accounted for completely and accurately.
Reconciliations include identifying and comparing transactions from two
sets of records to determine whether the transactions are recorded
properly, have yet to be recorded, or were recorded improperly and
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 106 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
require correction. Reconciliations also serve to identify unauthorized
transactions and explain differences. Reconciliations may be performed
by comparing internal records or by verifying the entity’s records against
external data, such as with a bank reconciliation.
Information Security Logging
A log is a record of events that occur within the entity’s information
technology, including physical and virtual platforms, networks, services,
and cloud environments. Management uses logs for many functions, such
as optimizing system and network performance, recording the actions of
users, and providing useful data for investigating malicious activity. Many
logs contain records that are relevant for information security, such as
operating system logs that capture system events and audit records;
application logs that capture operational and security events; and security
software logs that record routine events, adverse events, and possible
malicious activity.
Detective Data Analytics
Management uses detective data analytics to identify patterns,
discrepancies, and anomalies in data to identify potential issues, such as
fraudulent activity or improper payments, to detect and correct an
unintended event or result after it occurs. Examples of detective data
analytics include the following:
• Data mining - Management uses data mining to identify activities or
transactions that deviate from expected patterns, which may indicate
significant events or suspicious activity. For example, management
may look for unusual transactions or data entries that do not fit an
expected pattern by applying filters or predefined rules to transactions
to identify those that exhibit signs of fraud. Management may
automate data mining to scan data for outliers and irregularities on a
continuous, real-time basis.
• Information security log analytics - Management performs log
analytics to identify patterns, anomalies, and trends that may
represent security incidents involving the entity’s information
technology. Tools may automatically generate incident alerts to notify
management of actions that present a risk, such as changes, access
at unusual times, bypassing security measures, or failures in the
system.
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 107 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Responding to Reported Risks and Incidents
Management establishes reporting lines, including separate reporting
lines such as whistleblower hotlines, for internal and external parties to
communicate information; elevate issues; and report instances of
potential fraud, waste, or abuse. Management establishes activities to
evaluate information obtained from these reporting lines and adapt the
entity’s internal control system as needed, including by correcting
deficiencies and issues identified, responding to risks, recovering
overpayments, and taking appropriate action to respond to fraudulent
activity.
Management may leverage internal data or coordinate with other entities
to obtain or access data to perform control activities, such as data
analytics. Examples of data sources include the following:
• Social Security Administration’s (SSA) Full File of Death Information4 -
SSA’s compilation of death information it uses to administer its
programs, which includes state death records, can provide an
additional resource for certain federal and state agencies to help
prevent improper payments and other benefits being incorrectly
provided to deceased persons. The Public File of Death Information
(also known as the public Death Master File) excludes state death
records and is available to a broader range of certified users.
• Do Not Pay5 - The Do Not Pay initiative, authorized and governed by
the Payment Integrity Information Act of 2019, provides a variety of
data-matching and other data-analytics services to all federal and
many state agencies to support their efforts to prevent and detect
improper payments. As part of the Do Not Pay Initiative, the Office of
Management and Budget has designated the Department of the
Treasury to host the Do Not Pay Working System, which is a
centralized portal through which users can search multiple databases
at one time to obtain information about potential payees and
awardees. Data shared through the Do Not Pay Working System
include the following:
• SSA’s Full File of Death Information
4For more information on SSA’s data exchange services and to request access to death
information, see https://www.ssa.gov/dataexchange/request_dmf.html.
5For more information on the Do Not Pay initiative and to access the portal, see
https://fiscal.treasury.gov/DNP/.
Sources of Data
Appendix II: Examples of Preventive and
Detective Control Activities and Sources of
Data
Page 108 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
• Treasury Offset Program Debt Check
• Department of Health and Human Services’ List of Excluded
Individuals and Entities
• General Services Administration’s System for Award Management
Exclusion Records
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 109 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
This appendix contains references to additional resources that
management may leverage in designing, implementing, and operating
effective internal control systems to address risk areas related to fraud,
improper payments, and information security. The resources provided
below may also be useful in addressing risks related to implementing new
or substantially changed programs, including emergency assistance
programs. These additional resources are primarily intended for federal
executive branch agencies; however, they may also be useful to federal
entities outside the executive branch and to nonfederal entities, such as
state, local, and quasi-governmental entities and nonprofit organizations.
GAO Fraud and Improper Payments Topic Page
GAO’s Fraud and Improper Payments website provides an issue
summary, multimedia resources, and recent reports on fraud and
improper payments. The topic page also includes GAO’s most recent
estimates of the amount of fraud in federal programs and agencies’ most
recent reported improper payments, including steps Congress and
agencies can take to help reduce fraud and improper payments.1
Improper Payments and Fraud: How They Are Related but Different
In December 2023, GAO published Improper Payments and Fraud: How
They Are Related but Different.2 This Q&A report describes examples of
the relationships and distinctions between improper payments and fraud.
It also describes relevant GAO and other federal guidance and executive
agency efforts since 2015 to manage and reduce the causes and impacts
of improper payments and fraud.
GAO Improper Payments Framework
To provide management with an overall approach to managing improper
payments, particularly for new emergency assistance programs or
existing assistance programs that have received increased funding in
response to public health or other national emergencies, GAO published
A Framework for Managing Improper Payments in Emergency Assistance
1See GAO, Fraud and Improper Payments, https://www.gao.gov/fraud-improper-
payments.
2GAO, Improper Payments and Fraud: How They Are Related but Different,
GAO-24-106608 (Washington, D.C.: Dec. 7, 2023).
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Fraud and Improper
Payments Resources
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 110 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Programs (Improper Payments Framework) in July 2023.3 This framework
can also be useful for managing improper payments in non-emergency
assistance programs or during normal program operations. It includes
leading principles and practices for program managers and incorporates
standards for internal control and fraud risk management; payment
integrity requirements from the Payment Integrity Information Act of 2019
(PIIA), codified at 31 U.S.C. §§ 3351-58; and guidance on improper
payments. It also highlights aspects of managing improper payments that
occur during the provision of emergency assistance, which may require
greater attention.
The steps within the framework include a control environment committed
to addressing improper payments, including those resulting from fraud;
assessing new risks, such as those stemming from the emergency; and
implementing and monitoring control activities that address identified
risks. The framework also incorporates steps that PIIA requires program
managers to take for certain programs, including routinely assessing how
susceptible programs are to significant improper payments and estimating
and analyzing improper payments. The framework should be used by
federal agencies in conjunction with existing requirements related to
managing improper payments, including those stemming from fraud.
GAO Fraud Risk Framework
To help combat fraud in government entities and programs—both during
normal operations and emergencies—GAO published A Framework for
Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs (Fraud Risk Framework).4
Issued in 2015, the Fraud Risk Framework identifies leading practices for
managing fraud risk and encompasses control activities for preventing,
detecting, and responding to fraud, with an emphasis on prevention.
The Fraud Risk Framework provides comprehensive guidance for
conducting fraud risk assessments and using the results as part of the
development of a robust antifraud strategy. It also describes leading
practices for establishing a control environment that is conducive to fraud
risk management; designing and implementing controls to prevent and
detect potential fraud; and monitoring and evaluating to provide
3GAO, A Framework for Managing Improper Payments in Emergency Assistance
Programs, GAO-23-105876 (Washington, D.C.: July 2023).
4GAO, A Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs, GAO-15-593SP
(Washington, D.C.: July 2015).
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 111 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
assurances to managers that they are effectively preventing, detecting,
and responding to potential fraud.
GAO Antifraud Resource
GAO’s Antifraud Resource website provides resources to help federal
officials learn more about fraud schemes that affect the federal
government, their underlying concepts, and how to combat such fraud.5
The resource includes GAO’s Conceptual Fraud Model, which was
developed to determine the nature of known fraud, both financial and
nonfinancial, that affects federal programs and operations.
OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Enterprise
Risk Management and Internal Control
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-123, Management’s
Responsibility for Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control,6
provides requirements for federal executive branch agencies to establish
and implement a process to properly assess and improve internal control.
The circular directs federal executive branch agencies to adhere to the
leading practices identified in GAO’s Fraud Risk Framework as part of
their efforts to effectively design, implement, and operate an internal
control system that addresses fraud risks. This includes evaluating fraud
risks and using a risk-based approach to design and implement control
activities to mitigate identified fraud risks.
OMB Memorandum M-21-19, Transmittal of Appendix C to OMB
Circular A-123
In March 2021, OMB published Memorandum M-21-19, Transmittal of
Appendix C to OMB Circular A-123, Requirements for Payment Integrity
Improvement.7 It provides a comprehensive set of requirements to
research the underlying causes of improper payments, balance payment
integrity risks and controls, and build the capacity to help prevent future
improper payments.
5GAO, Antifraud Resource, https://antifraud.gaoinnovations.gov.
6Office of Management and Budget, Management’s Responsibility for Enterprise Risk
Management and Internal Control, OMB Circular A-123 (Washington, D.C.: July 15, 2016).
7Office of Management and Budget, Transmittal of Appendix C to OMB Circular A-123,
Requirements for Payment Integrity Improvement, OMB Memorandum M-21-19
(Washington, D.C.: Mar. 5, 2021).
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 112 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Official PaymentAccuracy Website
The PaymentAccuracy.gov website provides information on agencies’
progress in preventing and recovering improper payments, including
resources for specific data, laws, and implementing guidance.8
National Institute of Standards and Technology Guidance
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) develops
information security and cybersecurity standards for categorizing
information and information technology systems, along with their security
requirements, and guidelines for detection and handling of security
incidents. NIST standards and guidelines include Federal Information
Processing Standards (FIPS) and NIST Special Publications (SP) in the
800 series (NIST SP 800).9 For example:
• NIST FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal
Information and Information Systems, specifies minimum security
requirements for federal information and information systems and a
risk-based process for selecting the security controls necessary to
satisfy the minimum requirement.10
• NIST SP 800-39, Managing Information Security Risk: Organization,
Mission, and Information System View, addresses organizational
requirements for managing risks in accordance with legal
requirements for information security management for federal
agencies.11
• NIST SP 800-53, Revision 5, Security and Privacy Controls for
Information Systems and Organizations, is a catalog of security and
8The website, https://www.paymentaccuracy.gov, is an OMB-managed official U.S.
government website.
9NIST standards and guidelines may periodically be updated, and the current versions
can be found at https://csrc.nist.gov/publications.
10National Institute of Standards and Technology, Minimum Security Requirements for
Federal Information and Information Systems, NIST FIPS 200 (Gaithersburg, Md.: March
2006). See https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/200/final.
11National Institute of Standards and Technology, Managing Information Security Risk:
Organization, Mission, and Information System View, NIST SP 800-39 (Gaithersburg, Md.:
March 2011). See https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/39/final.
Information Security
Resources
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 113 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
privacy internal controls that can be implemented as part of an entity-
wide process to manage risk.12
In addition, federal entities are required13 to use NIST’s Framework for
Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (Cybersecurity Framework)
for managing their cybersecurity risks.14 The Cybersecurity Framework is
guidance, based on existing standards, guidelines, and practices, for
organizations to better manage and reduce cybersecurity risk.
NIST also issues publications on emerging technologies. For example,
NIST AI 100-1, Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework, offers
a resource to the organizations designing, developing, deploying, or using
artificial intelligence (AI) systems to help manage risks of AI and promote
trustworthy and responsible development and use of AI systems.15
GAO Cybersecurity Topic Page
GAO’s Cybersecurity website provides an overview, multimedia
resources, and key reports on cybersecurity, including steps agencies
can take to help address cybersecurity challenges.16
GAO Science & Technology Topic Page
GAO’s Science & Technology website provides an overview of emerging
technologies that may present both opportunities and risks to agencies,
such as AI, automation, machine learning, and blockchain technology.
12National Institute of Standards and Technology, Security and Privacy Controls for
Information Systems and Organizations, NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 (Gaithersburg, Md.:
December 2020). See https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final.
13Executive Order 13800, Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and
Critical Infrastructure (May 2017) (reprinted in 82 Fed. Reg. 22391), requires entities to
use NIST’s Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity to manage their
cybersecurity risks. See
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2017/05/16/2017-10004/strengthening-the-cyb
ersecurity-of-federal-networks-and-critical-infrastructure.
14National Institute of Standards and Technology, The NIST Cybersecurity Framework
(CSF) 2.0 (Gaithersburg, Md.: February 2024). See https://www.nist.gov/publications/nist-
cybersecurity-framework-csf-20.
15National Institute of Standards and Technology, Artificial Intelligence Risk Management
Framework (AI RMF 1.0) (Gaithersburg, Md.: January 2023). See
https://www.nist.gov/publications/artificial-intelligence-risk-management-framework-ai-rmf-
10.
16See GAO, Cybersecurity, https://www.gao.gov/cybersecurity.
Appendix III: Additional Resources
Page 114 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
The topic page includes recent reports and other resources for
responsible use of emerging technologies.17
OMB Circular A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource
OMB Circular A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource,18
establishes minimum requirements for federal information security
programs, assigns federal agency responsibilities for the security of
information and information systems, and links agency information
security programs and agency management control systems established
in accordance with OMB Circular A-123.
17See GAO, Science & Technology, https://www.gao.gov/science-technology.
18Office of Management and Budget, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource,
OMB Circular A-130 (Washington, D.C.: July 28, 2016).
Appendix IV: Acknowledgments
Page 115 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
Dr. Audrey A. Gramling, Chair
Oklahoma State University
Dr. Brett M. Baker
National Archives and Records Administration, Office of Inspector
General
Matthew Bohdan
Plante Moran, PLLC
Sheila Conley
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (Retired)
Douglas Cotnoir
State of Maine, Office of the State Controller
Kayla Futch
KPMG LLP
MelaJo K. Kubacki
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
Allison C. Lerner
National Science Foundation, Office of Inspector General (Retired)
Sonia Montano
City and County of Denver, Colorado, Office of the Auditor
Edward J. Murray
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Sherrill F. Norman
State of Florida, Auditor General
Dr. Douglas F. Prawitt
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and Brigham Young University
Margaret Vo Schaus
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Tammy Whitcomb Hull
U.S. Postal Service, Office of Inspector General
Appendix IV: Acknowledgments
Comptroller General’s
Advisory Council on
Standards for Internal
Control in the Federal
Government
(2023-2025)
Appendix IV: Acknowledgments
Page 116 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
James R. Dalkin, Director
Carrie J. Morrison, Assistant Director
Estelle M. Tsay-Huang, Assistant Director
Lanie M. Carlson, Senior Auditor
Maria M. Morton, Senior Auditor
Heena R. Patel, Senior Auditor
Cherry Y. Vasquez, Senior Auditor
Kristen A. Kociolek, Managing Director, Financial Management and
Assurance
Robert F. Dacey, Chief Accountant
In addition to the project team named above, also contributing were
Johana Ayers, Nicole Burkart, Alicia Cackley, Joseph Crays, Vijay
D’Souza, Paulissa Earl, Lauren Stacy Fassler, Matthew M. Gardner,
Jason M. Kelly, Jason Kirwan, Jonathon Oldmixon, Andrew Pauline, and
Kimberly Y. Young.
GAO Project Team
Staff
Acknowledgments
Glossary
Page 117 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
The following terms are provided to assist in clarifying the Standards for
Internal Control in the Federal Government. The most relevant paragraph
numbers are provided for reference.
application control activities: Automated control activities that are
incorporated directly into application software to achieve the
completeness, accuracy, and validity of transactions and data; application
controls include control activities over input, processing, and output of
data (paragraph 10.07)
attributes: Provide further explanation of the principles and may also
contain minimum documentation requirements. Management considers
attributes when designing, implementing, and operating the associated
principles (paragraph OV2.08)
baseline: The current state of the internal control system compared
against management’s design of the internal control system; it represents
the difference between the criteria for the design of the internal control
system and the condition of the internal control system at a specific point
in time (paragraph 16.02)
business processes: Processes established across the entity to enable
organizations to achieve their objectives and transform inputs into outputs
through a series of transactions or activities (paragraph OV2.14)
competence: The capability to carry out assigned responsibilities
(paragraph 4.02)
complementary user entity controls: Controls that a service
organization identifies as being necessary for the entity to implement to
achieve the control objectives specified by the service organization
(paragraph OV4.04)
component: One of the five required elements of internal control; the
internal control components are Control Environment, Risk Assessment,
Control Activities, Information and Communication, and Monitoring
(paragraph OV2.04)
configuration management: Control activities to develop and maintain
the operating and security features of information technology and control
changes to their configuration (paragraph 11.09)
contingency plans/planning: The processes defined to address an
entity’s need to respond to sudden changes or unexpected events that
Glossary
Glossary
Page 118 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
could compromise the internal control system (paragraphs 4.06 and
11.17)
controls: Policies and procedures management establishes to effect
relevant principles within each component of internal control (paragraph
OV1.04)
control activities: Actions management establishes through policies and
procedures as part of the control activities component to specifically
mitigate risks to achieving the entity’s objectives to acceptable levels
(paragraphs OV1.04 and 10.02)
control objective: The aim or purpose of specified controls to effect
relevant principles within each component of internal control (paragraph
OV3.05)
deficiency: When the design, implementation, or operation of a control
does not allow management or other personnel, in the normal course of
performing their assigned responsibilities, to achieve the entity’s
objectives (paragraph OV3.07)
detective control activity: A control activity that is designed to discover
and timely correct an unintended event or result after it occurs (paragraph
10.10)
entity objective: What an entity wants to achieve; entity objectives are
intended to meet the entity’s mission, strategic plan, and goals; objectives
are also set to meet requirements for the entity that are established in
applicable laws and regulations (paragraph OV2.22)
entity-level control activities: Controls designed to mitigate risks that
have a pervasive effect on an entity’s internal control system; entity-level
control activities may include controls related to the entity’s risk
assessment process, control environment, service organizations,
management override, and performance or analytical reviews (paragraph
10.16)
fraud: Involves obtaining something of value through willful
misrepresentation (paragraph 8.06)
general control activities: Actions established through policies and
procedures that apply to all or a large segment of an entity’s information
technology designed to mitigate information security risks; general control
activities include security management, logical and physical access,
Glossary
Page 119 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
configuration management, segregation of duties, and contingency
planning (paragraphs 11.07 and 11.09)
Green Book: The commonly used name for Standards for Internal
Control in the Federal Government (Overview: How to Use the Green
Book)
improper payment: Any payment that should not have been made or
that was made in an incorrect amount (e.g., overpayments and
underpayments); payments are also considered improper when there is
insufficient or lack of documentation (paragraph 8.11)
information security: The protection of information or information
technology from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption,
modification, or destruction to provide confidentiality, integrity, and
availability (paragraph 11.02)
information system: The people, processes, data, and information
technology that management uses to obtain, generate, communicate, or
dispose of information to support the entity’s business processes
(paragraph 13.05)
information technology: The infrastructure, platforms, and software
used to automate processes (paragraph 11.05)
information technology infrastructure: The physical information
technology resources necessary to run software, including the hardware
and devices used for information processing, data storage, and network
communication (paragraph 11.05)
inherent risk: The risk to an entity in the absence of management’s
response to the risk (paragraph 7.03)
internal control: A process effected by an entity’s oversight body,
management, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable
assurance that the objectives of an entity will be achieved (paragraph
OV1.01)
internal control system: Consists of integrated and continuous
processes, effected by people, that are collectively designed to provide
reasonable assurance, not absolute assurance, that an entity’s objectives
will be achieved (paragraph OV1.05)
Glossary
Page 120 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
key role: A position in an organizational structure that is assigned an
overall responsibility of an entity (paragraph 3.06)
likelihood of occurrence: The level of possibility that an unintended
event or result will occur (paragraph 7.08)
logical and physical access: Control activities that restrict access to
information technology to authorized users (paragraph 11.09)
magnitude of impact: The likely magnitude of the effect of the risk on the
entity’s ability to achieve its objectives; it is affected by factors such as the
size, pace, and duration of the risk’s impact (paragraph 7.08)
management: Personnel who are directly responsible for all activities of
an entity, including the design, implementation, and operating
effectiveness of an entity’s internal control system (paragraph OV2.19)
monitoring activities: Activities that evaluate whether each of the five
components of internal control, including controls to effect the principles
within each component, is present and functioning or if change is needed
(paragraph 16.02)
must: Denotes a requirement that management must comply with in all
cases; these requirements are the components of internal control
(paragraph OV2.04)
organizational structure: The overall entity, divisions, operating units,
functions, and other structures management uses to achieve the
objectives (paragraph OV2.14)
oversight body: Those responsible for overseeing management’s
design, implementation, and operation of an internal control system
(paragraph OV2.19)
performance measure: A means of evaluating the entity’s performance
in achieving objectives (paragraph 6.07)
platforms: The logical information technology resources necessary to run
application software, including operating systems and related computer
programs, tools, and utilities (paragraph 11.05)
policies: Reflect management or oversight body statements of what is
expected to be done to effect internal control (OV1.04)
Glossary
Page 121 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
preventive control activity: A control activity that is designed to avoid an
unintended event or result before it occurs (paragraph 10.10)
principle: Fundamental concept that is integral to supporting the effective
design, implementation, and operation of the associated components of
internal control and represents requirements necessary to establish an
effective internal control system (paragraph OV2.05)
procedures: Actions that implement policies (paragraph OV1.04)
qualitative objectives: Objectives where management may need to
design performance measures that indicate a level or degree of
performance, such as milestones (paragraph 6.07)
quality information: Information that supports the internal control
system, using relevant data from reliable sources that are appropriate,
current, complete, accurate, accessible, verifiable, retained as
appropriate, and provided on a timely basis (paragraph 13.07)
quantitative objectives: Objectives where performance measures may
be a targeted percentage or numerical value (paragraph 6.07)
reasonable assurance: A high degree of confidence, but not absolute
confidence (paragraph OV1.05)
reporting lines: Communication lines, both internal and external, at all
levels of the organization that provide methods of communication that can
flow down, across, up, and around the organizational structure
(paragraph 3.04)
residual risk: The risk that remains after management’s response to
inherent risk (paragraph 7.03)
risk: The possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect the
achievement of objectives (paragraph 7.02)
risk tolerance: The acceptable level of variation in performance relative
to the achievement of objectives (paragraph 6.08)
security management: A separate process, addressing all components
of internal control, for responding to risks related to information security
(paragraph 11.09)
Glossary
Page 122 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
segregation of duties: The separation of responsibilities for performing
control activities related to the authority, custody, and accounting of
operations so that incompatible duties are segregated (paragraphs 10.21
and 10.22)
service organization: An external party that performs business
processes or provides services in support of business processes for an
entity (paragraph OV4.03)
should: Denotes a principle requirement management should comply
with except in rare circumstances where the requirement is not relevant
for the entity (paragraphs OV2.06 and OV2.07)
software: The application software, access control software, and other
software used to perform specific functions of the entity’s business
processes (paragraph 11.05)
succession plans: The processes that address an entity’s need to
replace competent personnel over the long term (paragraph 4.06)
transaction control activities: Controls that directly mitigate information
processing risks in the entity’s business processes (paragraph 10.17)
user control activities: Partially automated control activities that
individuals perform by using information technology or by relying on the
information processed through technology (paragraph 10.07)
Page 123 GAO-25-107721 Federal Internal Control Standards
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately.
The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and investigative
arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities and to help improve the performance and accountability of the
federal government for the American people. GAO examines the use of public
funds; evaluates federal programs and policies; and provides analyses,
recommendations, and other assistance to help Congress make informed
oversight, policy, and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government
is reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and reliability.
The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no cost is
through our website. Each weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly
released reports, testimony, and correspondence. You can also subscribe to
GAO’s email updates to receive notification of newly posted products.
The printed version of the 2025 revision to Standards for Internal Control in the
Federal Government can be ordered through the Government Publishing Office
(GPO) online http://bookstore.gpo.gov/ or by calling 202-512-1800 or 1-866-512-
1800 toll free.
Connect with GAO on X, LinkedIn, Instagram, and YouTube.
Subscribe to our Email Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at https://www.gao.gov.
Contact FraudNet:
Website: https://www.gao.gov/about/what-gao-does/fraudnet
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454 or (202) 512-7700
Sarah Kaczmarek, Managing Director, Media@gao.gov
A. Nicole Clowers, Managing Director, CongRel@gao.gov
https://www.gao.gov/about/contact-us
GAO’s Mission
Obtaining Copies of
GAO Reports and
Testimony
Order by Phone
Connect with GAO
To Report Fraud,
Waste, and Abuse in
Federal Programs
Media Relations
Congressional
Relations
General Inquiries
