2026 Originators newsletter
                   January 2026




                                  0
Nacha’s role in ACH
Nacha®, the National Automated Clearing House Association, is a trade association that helps develop, implement and
enforce rules governing the use of the Automated Clearing House network. Nacha creates rules and standards through
consensus-led governance with collaboration and input from industry stakeholders. You can learn more about Nacha
by visiting their website.

As an ACH Originator, understanding the ACH Operating Rules is essential in ensuring your compliance with the
rules. If you wish to purchase a copy of the Rules, you may purchase it at the Nacha store, or by contacting your ODFI
to receive a copy at your expense.

Upcoming Rule changes
New Company Entry Description Rules take effect March 20, 2026
Company Entry Description – PAYROLL

The Company Entry Description field must contain PAYROLL, all capitalized, for PPD Credits paying wages, salaries
and other similar types of compensation. New language indicates that the use of the term PAYROLL in this field is
descriptive. By use of the word, neither the Originator, nor the ODFI or any third-party service provider acting on behalf
of an Originator or ODFI, makes any representation or warranty to the RDFI or the Receiver regarding the Receiver’s
employment status.

Company Entry Description – PURCHASE

The Company Entry Description field must contain PURCHASE, all capitalized, for e-commerce purchases. For this
purpose, an e-commerce purchase is a debit entry authorized by a consumer receiver for the online purchase of
goods, including recurring purchases first authorized online. An e-commerce purchase uses the WEB debit SEC Code,
except as permitted by the rule on Standing Authorization to use the PPD or TEL debit SEC Code.

Originators are encouraged to begin using the new PAYROLL and PURCHASE descriptions as soon as possible, but
no later than March 20, 2026. For more details on the new Company Entry Description requirements, visit Nacha’s
website.

New fraud monitoring requirements take effect March 20 and June 19, 2026

Starting in 2026, business Originators will be required to establish and implement risk-based fraud monitoring processes
and procedures reasonably intended to identify ACH Entries initiated due to fraud. The Originator’s processes and
procedures must be designed to reasonably identify entries suspected of being unauthorized or made under false
pretenses, and they must be reviewed and updated at least annually to address evolving risks. These rule changes are
part of Nacha’s new risk management rules and fraud prevention requirements.

The new fraud monitoring requirements go into effect March 20, 2026, for businesses with ACH origination
volume greater than six million entries in 2023 and June 19, 2026, for businesses that originate less than six million
entries annually.

A common question we hear is: What practical steps should Originators, large or small, take to comply?

To keep it simple, most ACH transactions are sent to the same Receivers whether payroll, utility payments, vendor
invoices or accounts payable. So, it makes sense to focus on transactions that are unusual or non-recurring.
Originators should consider focusing their processes and procedures on brand-new Receivers and existing Receivers
who suddenly change account information.

New Receivers

A new relationship needs to be established before sending an ACH credit. First, Originators should perform best
practice due diligence reviews to ensure the individual or business is legitimate through verifying identification,

                                                                                                                         1
performing background checks and ensuring that the proper signers and authorized personnel represent a real entity.
Then, Originators should securely store the account information in an encrypted fashion and maintain a valid contact
number on file for any future verification.

Existing Receivers who suddenly change account information

If a long-time Receiver unexpectedly sends new account details, especially via email, text or fax, treat it as a red flag.
The Originator should use the contact information on file, not the information in the change request message, to verify
account changes. Apply “know your customer” practices to confirm the request is legitimate before proceeding. Your
company is responsible for following up on any request to change a Receiver’s account information with a phone call
to the number on file in your records, without relying on the contact information included in the request.

For more details regarding the new fraud monitoring requirements, visit Nacha's website. Chapter 15 in the 2026
Nacha Rule book, specifically pages OG74-OG80, provides additional guidance to help Originators implement the new
requirements. You can also read Nacha’s blog for additional tips that’ll help Originators comply with the upcoming risk
management rules.

Compliance with existing Nacha Rules helps Originators mitigate fraud risk
Secure transmission of ACH information

According to section 1.7 of the ACH Rules, sensitive account information such as the routing transit numbers, account
numbers or the entries themselves, must be securely transmitted via encryption or a secure session. Thus, any
Originator who’s transmitting account information via clear-text or unencrypted email is in violation of this Rule and is
being exposed to fraud. Since Originators have direct relationships with Receivers, they’re in the best positioned to spot
red flags, like new account setups or unexpected changes, and should have escalation processes in place to
investigate before transmitting any unusual or suspicious entries.

Originator must obtain authorization from the receiver

Section 2.3 of the Nacha requires Originators to obtain authorization from the Receiver to originate one or more entries
to the Receiver’s account. This authorization must comply with applicable legal requirements, meaning it must clearly
link the Receiver to the consent provided. Common, easily spoofed methods like email don’t meet this standard.
Instead, secure and traceable authorization methods, such as HR portals, written authorizations, or voided checks,
could be used to protect both parties and ensure compliance.

ACH data security

Nacha Operating Rules require all ACH participants to protect the security and integrity of certain ACH data throughout
its lifecycle. Your company plays a vital role in maintaining proper security over protected information obtained as an
ACH payment Originator. In the context of payment originations, protected information may be referred to as non-
public personal which includes the financial information of a natural person used to create an entry, or contained within
an entry, and any related addenda record. Originators must be vigilant in their effort to protect the security of protected
information due to the increased focus on privacy of data, threats from data breaches and other unscrupulous activity,
such as corporate account takeovers, viruses, network intrusions, employee/email fraud and hacking.

Your company is required to establish, implement and update policies, procedures and systems including controls with
respect to the initiation, processing and storage of protected information that are designed to:

   • Protect the confidentiality and integrity of the protected information until its destruction.
   • Protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of protected information until its
     destruction.
   • Protect against unauthorized use of protected information that could result in substantial harm to a natural
     person.




                                                                                                                             2
Chapter four of the 2026 Nacha Rule book, pages OG24-OG28, provides guidance to help Originators comply with the
ACH Data Security rules, which also helps mitigate fraud risk.

2026 standard Federal Reserve Bank holidays
The FedACH holiday schedule is published and available on the Federal Reserve website. Keep in mind that a
payment can’t have an effective date on a federal holiday because the Federal Reserve isn’t open for processing.
Therefore, it’s important that you take note of the holiday schedule to make sure the transactions you initiate process on
time.

2026 holidays
New Year’s Day
Thursday, Jan. 1

Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Monday, Jan. 19

Washington’s Birthday, Presidents Day
Monday, Feb. 16

Memorial Day
Monday, May 25

Juneteenth National Independence Day
Friday, June 19

Independence Day
Saturday, July 4

Labor Day
Monday, Sept. 7

Columbus Day
Monday, Oct.12

Veterans Day
Wednesday, Nov. 11

Thanksgiving Day
Thursday, Nov. 26

Christmas Day
Friday, Dec. 25




                                                                                                                        3
Understanding returns and return codes
Return codes are used when the receiving bank is unable to post an entry to the Receiver’s account and may return
the entry back to the originating bank. Return codes provide the reason for the return. The financial institution will
notify you of a return and then credit or debit the amount to your account. Return notification is typically provided to
you by regular mail, email or online notification. Originators should receive return information within two banking
days from the settlement date.

Return codes explain why funds are being returned.

Common return codes are:

   •   R01 Insufficient funds
   •   R02 Account closed
   •   R03 No account or unable to locate account
   •   R04 Invalid account number
   •   R06 Returned per ODFI’s request
   •   R08 Payment stopped or stop payment on item
   •   R09 Uncollected funds
   •   R16 Account frozen
   •   R23 Credit entry refused by receiver
   •   R29 Corporate customer/accountholder advises not authorized

Unauthorized Return Codes are red flags for potential fraud
Originators should promptly investigate any entries returned with an unauthorized return code because these are
red flags for potential fraud. The Receiving financial institution has up to 60 calendar days to return unauthorized
entries. Common unauthorized return codes are:

   •   R05 Unauthorized debit to a consumer account using a corporate SEC code
   •   R07 Authorization revoked by a consumer accountholder
   •   R10 Customer/accountholder advises not authorized
   •   R11 Customer/accountholder advises entry not in accordance with the terms of the authorization

Re-initiating a returned item – RETRY PYMT

The only transactions that can be re-presented for settlement are:

   • Those returned for Insufficient Funds or Uncollected Funds. There is a limit of two re-presentments within
     180 days of the original entry date.
   • A transaction that was returned for Stop Payment, if re-presenting it must be approved by the receiving
     party.

When re-initiating a returned item, RETRY PYMT in all capital letters is required in the company entry description
field. Identical content is required in the following fields: company, name, company ID and amount. Modifications to
other fields are permitted, but only to those necessary to correct an administrative error made during processing.

Reversals
Reversals are defined as a credit or debit entry that reverses an erroneous entry. If an Originator creates erroneous
ACH entries or files, corrections may be made by initiating reversing entries or files. An erroneous entry or file is
defined as:



                                                                                                                       4
   • A duplicate of an entry previously initiated by the originator or ODFI
   • Orders payment to or from receiver not intended to be credited or debited
   • Orders payment in a dollar amount different then was intended

Reversals are requests

Reversals aren’t mandatory transactions for the receiving financial institution, and they don’t guarantee you will
recover any funds. Receiving financial institutions don’t have to put themselves in a negative position, such as
overdrawing the receiver’s account, to process a reversal. Reversals may be returned by the receiving institution.

The following must be present when submitting a reversal:

   •   REVERSAL must be in all capital letters in the description field of the company batch header record
   •   Originated within five banking days following settlement date of the erroneous entry
   •   Will need to build a new batch record
   •   Change the transaction codes to offset entries, for example debits reverse credits
   •   The effective date should be the same date as the original entry/file date for future dated files
   •   Notify the receiver of the reversal by the settlement date. In the case of an erroneous file, transmit a
       correcting file with the reversing file

We recommend that Originators use an authorization agreement with their Receivers that states they are authorized
to debit/reverse any entries made in error. This is good business practice and will help with any disputes in the
future.

Understanding your role regarding the security of non–public personal
information
The Nacha Operating Rules require that each Originator and third–party sender must have policies and procedures
in place regarding the initiation, processing and the storage of personal, non-public information, entries and files.
Your security policies and procedures should accomplish the following requirements:

   • Protect the confidentiality and integrity of the personal, non–public information, including financial information
     that you have on file, and the file information itself, until destruction. Other non–public information you may
     have on file includes EIN or tax ID numbers, dates of birth, social security numbers and addresses.
   • Protect against anticipated threats and/or hazards that would threaten the security of the protected
     information until its destruction.
   • Protect against the unauthorized use of that protected information which could cause harm to that individual
     and/or business.
   • Security policies and procedures should be reviewed on an annual basis, or more frequently depending on
     your business needs. Check out this guide to help create your security incident response procedures.

Office of Foreign Asset Control
Originators must comply with Office of Foreign Asset Control requirements

You’re required to check payees/ACH recipients against OFAC compliance checklists. OFAC checklists contain lists
of countries, groups and individuals with which U.S. companies aren’t permitted to send or receive funds.

It’s against the law to send debit or credit entries to OFAC-blocked entities. You can check the OFAC SDN list here.




                                                                                                                      5
Notification of change
If the information on a transaction you originated is incorrect, you may receive a non-dollar correction transaction
called a notification of change. It specifies information such as:

   • Correct account number
   • Correct routing/transit number
   • Correct account type, like checking and/or savings

For example, if a receiving bank, also called receiving depository financial institution, has been through a merger, it
may send you a NOC to provide new information that should be included on future transactions you originate.

The financial institution will notify you of any NOCs received. Changes need to be made before originating any
further transactions to the same account. This is important to avoid disruption of payments or fines for uncorrected
information which your financial institution may pass on to you. Following the NOC process, the receiving bank
ensures that the information provided on future ACH transactions will be correct. By complying with the NOC, your
business can originate from future transactions without having to obtain a new authorization.

Common NOC codes:

   •   C01 Incorrect bank account number
   •   C02 Incorrect routing/transit number
   •   C03 Incorrect routing/transit number and bank account number
   •   C05 Incorrect transaction code
   •   C06 Incorrect bank account number and transaction code
   •   C07 Incorrect routing/transit number, bank account number and transaction code

Authorizations
As an Originator, you’re required to adhere to certain rules and agreements when initiating ACH transactions. An
authorization is a document that is received by the Originator from the Receiver which authorizes the Originator
to initiate a transaction on behalf of the Receiver.

   •   Consumer authorizations must be written and signed or similarly authenticated by the receiver.
   •   The receiver must also receive a copy of the written authorization.
   •   The terms of authorization must be clearly stated and understandable.
   •   Must contain instructions for termination.
   •   Originators are required to retain the authorization for two years from the termination or the revocation of the
       authorization.
   •   You must obtain authorization from a customer when making a one-time or recurring ACH debit and must
       indicate very clearly to the customer that they are authorizing a one-time or recurring ACH debit.
   •   You must take reasonable steps to ensure customers’ routing numbers are valid.
   •   You must take steps to verify a customer’s identity, without regard to whether a transaction is authorized
       online or by phone.
   •   You must be vigilant about possible fraud and do whatever is commercially reasonable to ensure the ACH
       transactions you initiate are not fraudulent.
   •   Ensure that you cancel a subscription promptly and stop making debits if a customer asks to cancel.

Standard Entry Class code
A Standard Entry Class code is a mandatory three-character code that’s used in all batches to identify the types of
entries within a batch.


                                                                                                                       6
Only one SEC code may be used for each batch of entries. If you have both consumer and business receivers, the
entries will need to be split into separate batches, one for consumer Receivers, and one for corporate or
business Receivers. If an incorrect SEC code is used for a batch, you will be subject to additional return risk
exposure and the potential for monetary fines assessed by Nacha through the National System of Fines.

For example, if a batch of entries is sent to corporate or business receivers using the Pre-arranged Payment or
Debit SEC code, debit entries may be returned for up to 60 days, and you must have an authorization.

Ensuring you’re using the correct SEC code helps limit your liability for return entries and helps you avoid fines that
may be assessed for using the improper SEC code. The most used SEC codes are:

PPD — Pre-arranged Payment or Debit

   • For business-to-business consumer use only
   • Most used for direct deposit
   • Written authorization from the Receiver must be on file if you’re debiting their account

CCD — Cash Concentration or Disbursement

   •   For business-to-business use only
   •   Can be used for moving funds between a business’s own accounts at different institutions
   •   Used for payments or debits to other businesses
   •   Agreements are handled by contract authorization between companies

You can’t combine different recipient types like consumers and businesses within a single batch. Different SEC
codes are required based on the recipient type.

For example, you can’t generate an ACH batch that contains employees for weekly payroll and businesses you’re
paying for invoices or other payment needs. You would need to originate one PPD batch containing all the
employee transactions, and one CCD batch containing all the B2B transactions.

Company name
To ensure clear identification of the source of an ACH transaction, the Rules contain specific requirements with
respect to how an Originator must identify itself within an ACH record. The Rules require the Originator to populate
the Company Name field with the name by which it is known and readily recognized by the Receiver. This name
could be the Originator’s doing business as name or trading as name.

The inclusion of a readily recognizable Originator name ensures that the Receiver can identify a transaction
appearing on their periodic statement. The clear identification of the Originator of an ACH transaction improves
overall network quality by reducing the number of unrecognized entries requiring investigation and possible returns.




                                                                                                                       7
Fraud corner
Spotting and avoiding phishing and quishing scams
The world is in a constant state of communication. Between emails, texts and phone calls we receive a countless
number of messages each day. Most of these are legitimate, but others are cleverly disguised to trick people into
giving up their personal or financial information. Here’s how to spot and avoid quishing and phishing scams.

Phishing for information
Phishing is where criminals send emails to “fish” for sensitive information like passwords, bank account numbers or
debit card details. These messages often mimic legitimate companies or people you know or work with to create a
sense of urgency. The context of the email may claim you need to update payment information. It may say you need
to confirm personal or financial information. The email may include an invoice you don’t recognize with a link for
a non-traditional way to pay. It might also contain malicious links or attachments that lead to fake websites. At first
glance, these emails look real, but odds are they’re not.

Here are some common signs an email could be a scam:

   •   Unusual email address
   •   Unexpected messages requesting money, log-in credentials or sensitive information
   •   Suspicious links
   •   Generic references or greetings
   •   Misspelled words or messages with poor grammar

The hidden threat of quishing
Quick response codes, more commonly known as QR codes, are 2-D black and white matrix codes that store data
which can be scanned with a camera or code reader application. They’re widely used to store data such as URLs,
product details or contact information. However, they can also be used by malicious actors to trick people into giving
them their personal and financial information.

Quishing or QR phishing is the use of a QR code to redirect a user to a malicious site or link to gain access to the
user’s device or personal information. Tactics may include overlaying legitimate QR codes with malicious ones to
trick users or relying on traditional phishing tactics such as a too-good-to-be-true deal with murky or falsified
details.

Once the user clicks on the malicious link, they may be prompted to download malware or other harmful software.
This can compromise the device and expose sensitive data such as banking credentials, browser history or other
mobile activity.

Protecting yourself from quishing and phishing scams

Whether through a QR code, an email or a text message, bad actors use a variety of communication methods to
trick people into sharing their personal or financial information.

Here are some tips to protect yourself:

   •   Look out for typos and poor grammar
   •   Watch out for a false sense of urgency
   •   Avoid unusual requests or payment methods
   •   Don't click suspicious links
   •   Inspect QR codes before scanning to check for tampering or overlays



                                                                                                                       8
What are the fraud risks for ACH?
Fraud challenges all participants in the ACH Network. Originators must remain vigilant to prevent and defend
against fraud risk. There are certain common fraud schemes which you should be aware of. In one fraud scheme,
fraudsters hack into an Originator’s computer system using compromised user IDs and passwords and originate
ACH credits to mule accounts created for the express purpose of committing fraud. Those accounts are then
emptied and abandoned. The true Originator’s account, your account, is debited for the invalid origination file. The
credits are usually irretrievable by the time the fraud is discovered. The originator’s credentials may have been
compromised by an insider within the organization or stolen through key loggers or Trojan Horse programs on the
compromised computer.

Due to the risk this type of fraud presents, it’s essential that all computer equipment your company uses to operate
treasury management and ACH Origination applications is regularly updated and patched for security
vulnerabilities, including use of and updates to firewall, virus protection, anti-malware protection and anti-spam
protection.

What is website spoofing?
Website spoofing is the act of creating a fake website to mislead individuals into sharing sensitive information.
Spoofed websites are typically made to look exactly like a legitimate website published by a trusted organization.

To prevent fraud related to website spoofing:

   • Pay attention to the web address of websites. A website may look legitimate, but the URL may have a
     variation in spelling or use a slightly different domain name.
   • If you’re suspicious of a website, close it and contact the company directly.
   • Don’t click links on social networking sites, pop-up windows or non-trusted websites. Links can take you to a
     different website than their labels indicate. Typing an address in your browser is a safer alternative.
   • Only give sensitive information to websites using a secure connection. Verify the web address begins with
     https:// rather than just http://.
   • Avoid using websites for which your browser displays certificate errors or warnings.

Federal Reserve FraudClassifier model
The Federal Reserve worked with the payments industry to create the FraudClassifier™ model to help
organizations classify fraud consistently. Nacha participated in the development of the FraudClassifier model and
encourages the model’s use. The model supports a common fraud language across payment types and fraud
methods that can help all parties work together to identify and fight fraud. Applying the model across organizations
and the industry ensures greater consistency in fraud classification, more robust information and better fraud
tracking.

For additional information on the FraudClassifer model, visit the Federal Reserve’s website.

Common credit-push ACH fraud schemes
It’s critical for Originators to understand the nature of evolving fraud schemes and adopt appropriate risk control
measures to combat them. According to Nacha, the most common ACH fraud schemes are business email
compromise, vendor impersonation fraud, payroll impersonation fraud and account takeover fraud.

Business email compromise schemes
Business email compromise schemes occur when the legitimate email account of a business officer is either
compromised or impersonated and used to order or request the transfer of funds. The employee transfers funds to


                                                                                                                       9
the fraudster believing the order was from a reputable company email address owned by an officer with authority to
make those orders. Business email compromise is classified as relationship and trust fraud by the Federal
Reserve’s FraudClassifier model because an authorized party was manipulated into initiating a payment.

Vendor impersonation fraud
Vendor impersonation fraud occurs when a business, public sector agency or organization receives an unsolicited
request, purportedly from a valid contractor, to update the payment information for that contractor. The fraudster is
paid by the business, agency or organization when the real contractor submits an invoice for work done or goods
sold. Public sector organizations are frequently targeted because contract information is often in the public record.
Vendor impersonation fraud is classified as relationship and trust fraud by the Federal Reserve’s FraudClassifier
model because an authorized party was manipulated into initiating a payment.

Payroll impersonation fraud
Payroll impersonation fraud targets employees and human resources departments. A fraudster will impersonate an
employee and contact the HR department directly or through the employer’s payroll portal using stolen credentials.
The fraudster requests to change the account where the employee’s regular payroll is deposited. Once updated,
the employer pays the fraudster rather than the employee. Payroll impersonation fraud is classified as
compromised credentials or impersonated authorized party depending on whether the fraudster uses stolen
credentials to access the employer’s HR portal or impersonates the employee when contacting the employer’s HR
department.

Account takeover fraud
Account takeover fraud occurs when a fraudster obtains the credentials of a consumer or a business bank account
and pushes credits to their own accounts. The fraudster is active in the victim’s online bank account, knows the
account balances and can quickly deplete entire accounts. Account takeover fraud is classified as compromised
credentials because an unauthorized party initiates payment using stolen credentials.

For additional information on cyber fraud, visit Nacha’s website.




                                                                                                                    10
