                Nacha Operating Rules Updates and Reminders 2024
Each company sending ACH transactions is required to comply with the Nacha Operating Rules as stated within the
ACH Origination Services Agreement between United Bank and the company. The National Automated Clearing
House Association (Nacha) is the rule making body governing the ACH network; therefore, all participants of the ACH
network must comply with these Rules. To ensure the Bank communicates the Rules effectively, we have provided
these specific Originator (Corporate Customer) and Third Party Sender requirements of the Rules. Nacha updates
the Rules with changes, additions, and deletions on an annual basis. United Bank will communicate annually to
educate our customers of any updates and/or changes to the Rules.

                                     Nacha Operating Rules Reminders

Below are some reminders of the most researched ACH Rules; however, they do not constitute all of the required
Nacha Operating Rules.

Data Security

It is the responsibility of the company to protect his/her current cash management system and implement best
business practices to assist in the protection of its account. Some best business practices may include (1) ensuring
computer updates regularly (2) initiating ACH entries under dual control (with two systems) – one individual will
input the ACH debit and/or credit while another individual will approve the debit and/or credit from another
computer (3) implementing a security policy that enforces no social networking sites to be accessed on the same
computer as the cash management system (4) monitoring and reconciling your accounts daily (5) implementing a
procedure that enforces “red-flag” activity (i.e. the cash management system’s color scheme not looking the same
as before, “system down” warnings, etc.), and (6) educating staff on protecting the cash management system.

Company Name Identification

The Originator is required under the Rules to ensure a clear source identification of an ACH transaction. Specifically,
the Rules require the Originator to populate the Company Name Field with the name by which it is known and readily
recognized by the Receiver of the entry. When this company name appears on the account holder’s statement, it
should be easily recognizable by the account holder and receiver of the debit/credit transaction.

Proper Use of Standard Entry Class Code

The authorization requirements specified within the Rules address the minimum requirements needed for
authorization of various types of ACH transactions. In the case of United Bank customers, we allow our Originators
to initiate PPD (Prearranged Payments and Deposit) and CCD (Corporate Credits and Debit) entries. A PPD Entry is
originated by an organization to or from a consumer account and a CCD Entry is originated by an organization to or
from a non-consumer account. Any other standard entry class codes will require approval from United Bank.

Authorization Retention

An authorization for a debit or credit entry must be in writing, and signed or similarly authenticated by the Receiver.
Authorization must be retained by the Originator for a period of two years following the termination or revocation
of the authorization. In the case of a paper authorization that has been signed by the Receiver, the Originator must
retain either the original or a copy of the signed authorization. This authorization may be obtained in an electronic


                                                     Page 1 of 6
format that (1) accurately reflects the information in the record, and (2) is capable of being accurately reproduced
for later reference, whether by transmission, print or otherwise.

Authorization Requirements for Consumer Entries (PPD)

For PPD entries, the Originator should ensure that an authorization is clear and readily understandable by the
consumer account holder. The authorization should also include the account number and routing number of the
consumer account holder (i.e. a copy of the account holder’s check ensures the numbers are accurately obtained).
The consumer account holder must date and sign, or similarly authenticate the authorization to validate the
company’s authorization to initiate transactions on their account. Authorizations should include directions on how
to revoke the authorization, the amount of the debit entry, and the date on which the debit(s) will occur. According
to the Rules, Companies are responsible for ensuring the authorization contains “clear and readily understandable
terms.” An authorization that is not clear and readily understandable as to its terms (including the amount or timing
of debits) does not satisfy the requirements of the Rules and will be considered an invalid authorization. Each
Company should review their authorizations to ensure the requirements of the Nacha Operating Rules are met.
Obtaining appropriate authorizations will help protect your company as the Originator in the event of a return sent
back as “unauthorized.” Authorization must be retained by the Originator for a period of two years following the
termination or revocation of the authorization.

Authorization Requirements for Corporate Entries (CCD)

As with PPD entries, the Originator must obtain authorization for all credit and debit CCD entries. The Originator
must enter an agreement with each Receiver of the CCD entry, under which the Receiver has agreed to be bound by
the Nacha Operating Rules. The agreement should clearly state the representation of credits and/or debits to the
corporate customer account.

Notice of Change in Amount/Change in Debiting Date for Recurring Debits

For recurring debits, when the debit amount changes, the Rules require the Originator to notify the account
holder/receiver within ten (10) calendar days before the scheduled transfer date. An Originator that changes the
scheduled date in which debit entries are to be initiated to the Receiver must notify the account holder in writing at
least seven (7) calendar days before the first entry is scheduled to be debited from their account. Variations in
debiting dates due to Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays are not considered to be changes in the scheduled dates.

Prenotes

A prenotification is a zero-dollar entry generated to validate an account held at a Receiving Depository Financial
Institution (RDFI). Companies may originate prenotifications; however, they are not required under the Rules. A
prenotification is a tool to ensure the account information given by the receiver is accurate prior to initiating a live
dollar transaction. If the Originator chooses to initiate a prenotification, they must wait three (3) banking days prior
to initiating the live dollar transaction.

Notifications of Change Requirements

A Notification of Change (NOC) is a zero-dollar entry sent by the RDFI to the Originating Depository Financial
Institution (ODFI) to alert the Originator of changes to the Receiver’s account. Under the Nacha Operating Rules,
the Originator is required to make the changes specified in the NOC within six (6) banking days of receipt of the NOC
information or prior to initiating another entry to the Receiver’s account.




                                                     Page 2 of 6
Receiving ACH Returns and Re-initiation of Entries

Under the Nacha Operating Rules, an Originator or ODFI may re-initiate an entry that was previously returned if (1)
the entry has been returned for insufficient or uncollected funds; (2) the entry has been returned for stopped
payment and re-initiation has been authorized by the account holder; or (3) the ODFI (United Bank) has taken
corrective action to remedy the reason for the return. As a corporate customer, any returns received should be
resolved immediately and re-initiation of the same entry should not be transmitted unless one of the three reasons
above has occurred.

The Nacha Operating Rules state that only NSF and Uncollected Funds (Return Reason Code R01 and R09) may be
re-initiated after the Settlement Date of the original entry. An Originator must submit re-initiated entries as a
separate batch that contains the word “RETRY PYMT” in the Company Entry Description field. The contents of the
Company name, Company identification, and amount fields of the re-initiated entry must be identical to the contents
of the original entry. An Originator must not re-initiate an entry that has been returned for insufficient or uncollected
funds more than two times following the return of the original entry.

Stop Payments Made by a Consumer or Corporate Customer

A stop payment may be placed on the RDFI’s system for all future transactions relating to one Originator for all
incoming transactions. Originators or Third Party Senders (Corporate Customers) should train their internal staff
accordingly to ensure the understanding that multiple stop payments could be returned. Stop payments should not
be re-initiated into the system unless a new authorization has been obtained.

Unauthorized/Revoked Entries by a Consumer or Corporate Customer

An unauthorized or revoked entry may be returned if the customer believes that he/she did not authorize a payment.
According to the Rules, a new authorization should be obtained prior to re-initiating an entry that you received back
as unauthorized or revoked.

Reversing an ACH File or an ACH Entry

 An Originator may reverse a file if the file is erroneous or duplicate. The Originator may transmit the reversing file
within five (5) banking days after the Settlement Date for the entries within the duplicate or erroneous file. The
word “REVERSAL” should be placed in the Company Batch Header Field and the Originator must initiate a correcting
file along with the reversing file. A reversal is commonly used in situations of fraud whereby the Originator and/or
Third Party Sender attempts to recover fraudulent funds initiated and should be initiated within 24 hours of the
discovery of the error. Only an Originator may reverse an entry. The Originator should notify the account
holder/receiver of the reversing entry and give the reason for the reversing entry no later than the Settlement Date
of the reversing entry. A file or entry that (1) is a duplicate of an entry previously initiated by the Originator or ODFI;
(2) orders payment to or from a Receiver different than the Receiver intended to be credited or debited by the
Originator; (3) orders payment in an amount different than was intended by the Originator; or (4) is a PPD credit
entry satisfying each of the following criteria: (i) the PPD credit entry is for funds related to a Receiver’s employment;
(ii) the value of the PPD credit is fully included in the amount of a check delivered to the same Receiver at or prior
to the Receiver’s separation from employment; or (iii) the PPD credit entry was transmitted by the Originator prior
to the delivery of the check to the Receiver.

International ACH Transactions (IAT)

Certain ACH payments that are classified as domestic transactions may be classified as international payments, also
known as IAT transactions. As a result, an ACH transaction that is originated today may need to be originated as an

                                                      Page 3 of 6
IAT transaction under this Rule. The ACH transaction may be classified as an international payment (IAT transaction)
if your company (1) is a subsidiary of a multi-national corporation; (2) has foreign subsidiaries; (3) buys or sells to
organizations or individuals outside of the territorial jurisdiction of the United States; or (4) sends payroll, pension
or benefit payments via the ACH Network to individuals that have permanent resident addresses outside the
territorial jurisdiction of the United States. As an Originator, the Rules may affect you as a Corporate Customer.
Corporations are required to comply with OFAC obligations. The penalties for ignoring these obligations can be both
criminal and civil and may include both jail time and fines ranging from $10,000 to $10,000,000 per occurrence. If
these fines are levied against the financial institution, they may be passed back to the corporate originator depending
on the specifics of the case and the details of their contract with the financial institution. The fines are levied by the
U.S. government and funds collected are the property of the government, not the financial institution. Note: United
Bank does not allow its Originators to initiate IAT transactions.

Same Day ACH

As of March 18, 2022, the per-transaction dollar limit for Same Day ACH increased to $1,000,000 per item. This
includes credit and debit transactions.

United Bank will offer Same Day ACH by request for contingency purposes only. Fees may be applied upon request
of Same Day ACH access.

Requirement to Complete a Third Party Sender Audit


A third party sender is an intermediary between the bank and the entity’s (Third Party Sender’s) customers. The
Rules require all Third Party Senders to conduct an audit of its ACH operation no later than December 31st of each
year. As this is a Rule requirement, United Bank will be requesting confirmation of such audit. This Rule change was
created to help reduce risk by requiring Third Party Senders to conduct annual Rules compliance audits to identify
and correct any shortcomings in their processes as they relate to compliance with the Nacha Operating Rules.
Documentation and proof of completion of an audit must be retained for six (6) years from the date of the audit.
This Rule applies only to Third Party Senders.

Third Party Sender audits required upon request by Nacha - This Rule reinforces a Third Party Sender's existing
obligation to monitor and assess limitations on their customer's origination and return activities in the same manner
as the Originating Depository Financial Institution (ODFI) does today. This Rule also requires that a Third Party
Service Provider or Third Party Sender provide proof of completion of its Rules compliance audit to its ODFI upon
request, in order to fulfill a request from Nacha. Failure to comply with this requirement may result in a Nacha Class
II Rules violation and fines up to $100,000 per month until resolved.

Requirement to Register Third Party Senders

The Rules required United Bank to register each Third Party Sender with Nacha providing the following information:
    • The bank’s name and contact information;
    • The name and principal business location of the Third-Party Sender;
    • The bank’s routing numbers used in ACH transactions originated for the Third-Party Sender; and
    • The Company Identification(s) of the Third-Party Sender.
Note: This Rule applies only to Third Party Senders.




                                                      Page 4 of 6
Risk Management and Assessment Requirements of United Bank

This change updates the Rules to codify additional risk management practices regarding (1) the performance of due
diligence with respect to Originators and Third Party Senders; (2) the assessment of the nature of the Originator’s or
Third Party Sender’s ACH activity and the risk it presents; and (3) the establishment of procedures to monitor an
Originator or a Third Party Sender’s origination and return activity and to enforce exposure limits and restrictions on
the types of ACH transactions that may be originated. Originators should understand the necessity of the risk
management changes that have been applied to the Rules. United Bank, as an ODFI, may establish additional risk
management procedures such as requiring an audit of its Originator’s activity be performed, closely monitoring the
return volume of its originators, and assessing the risk associated with the type of ACH activity performed by each
Originator. United Bank may also limit the types of standard entry class codes which can be originated using United
Bank’s routing number.

Return Rate Reminders


Unauthorized Return Rate Threshold - The current return rate threshold for unauthorized debit Entries (Return
Reason Codes R05, R07, R10, R11*, R29 and R51) is 0.5 % of the total Entries originated.

*Information related to the Return Reason Code R11 – Customer Advises Entry Not in Accordance with the Terms of
the Authorization. An Originator that has received a Return Entry using Return Reason Code R11 may correct, if
possible, the error or defect in the original Entry and Transmit a new Entry that conforms to the terms of the original
authorization, without the need for re-authorization by the Receiver. Originators must Transmit the new Entry
within 60 days after the Settlement Date of the Return Entry.

Administrative and Overall Debit Return Rates - This Rule established a guideline for an Originator's administrative
return rate of 3% or below of the total Entries originated. The guideline applies to debit Entries returned due to
administrative or account data errors (Return Reason Codes R02, R03 and R04). Additionally, this Rule also
establishes an acceptable guideline for an Originator's overall debit Entry return rate of 15% or below of the total
Entries originated (excluding RCK entries).

Return rates that exceed these guidelines may prompt an inquiry and review process by Nacha and the engagement
of an industry review panel to evaluate the facts behind an Originator's ACH activity. Return rates above these levels
may provoke a Nacha evaluation but may not result in a Rules violation or a Rules enforcement proceeding.

NOTE: We suggest a prudent review of unauthorized, administrative and overall debit return Entries and return
rates within your company. Ongoing monitoring of your returns and return rates will ensure your company’s
compliance with the Rules. If you have any questions or concerns regarding your company’s return rates, please
contact United Bank.

Nacha Enforcement Authority - This Rule adds more options for which Nacha may begin an initial investigation or
Rules enforcement proceeding when an entity originates an excessive number of unauthorized Entries. This could
result in increased investigations of Originator activity, and could ultimately result in fines passed on to those
Originators.



                                                     Page 5 of 6
NOTE: We suggest that you review existing Nacha Rules regarding authorization requirements pertaining to
originating ACH Entries to ensure your organization's compliance with the Rules.

Clarification on Prenotification Entries and Addenda Records - This Rule revises the Nacha Operating Rules to clarify
that, apart from an IAT (International ACH Transaction) Entry; the Prenote Entry does not need to include addenda
records that are associated with the subsequent live Entry. The Rules require that the format of a Prenote Entry be
the same as the live Entry. Some differences between Prenotes and live Entries to which the Prenote relates include:

   The dollar amount of a Prenote Entry must be zero;
   A Prenote Entry is identified by a unique transaction code; and
   Addenda records associated with a live Entry are not required with a Prenote (unless the Prenote relates to an
    IAT Entry).

NOTE: While the Rules do not prohibit an Originator from transmitting addenda records with a Prenote Entry, an
Originator should have no expectation that a Receiving Depository Financial Institution (RDFI) will do any
processing or verification of remittance data contained within. Originators wishing to validate proper formatting
of remittance data for future entries to a non-consumer account should, instead, transmit a zero dollar Entry using
the appropriate zero dollar transaction code.

If you have any questions regarding the impact of the Rules, please contact United Bank. You may also obtain a copy
of the Nacha Operating Rules by visiting https://www.Nacha.org/store.




                                                    Page 6 of 6
