ACH Origination Guidelines
ACH Transaction Information


Standard Entry Class (SEC) Codes

Standard Entry Class (SEC) Codes are used to determine which ACH application is being used. Each
application has a unique SEC code which identifies:

    •   The nature of the transaction and whether it is single-entry or recurring.
    •   The ACH Rules governing the transaction, including the method for obtaining authorizations.
    •   The format to use to transmit the payment and payment-related information.

It is of the utmost importance to understand and know which SEC code to use for an ACH entry. The
SEC Code defines the posting and return procedures, and as mentioned above, the method for obtaining
authorizations.

Below are a few commonly used SEC Codes:

 SEC Code     SEC Code Description         Use of Application
                                           PPD is a debit or credit to a consumer’s account. It can be a
                                           single-entry or standing order. Direct Deposit can be used to
                                           disburse funds to consumers such as payroll, reimbursements,
              Prearranged Payment &
 PPD                                       and interest payments to name a few. Direct Payment can be
              Deposit
                                           used to collect funds from consumers’ accounts for things
                                           such as utility payments, memberships, and loan payments to
                                           name a few.
                                           CCD Entries can be debits or credits used to facilitate business-
                                           to-business (B2B) ACH payments. The CCD application
                                           provides a way for companies to disburse or consolidate funds
 CCD          Corporate Credit or Debit
                                           quickly. It can also be used to transfer funds among companies
                                           in the payment of goods or services and can support a limited
                                           amount of payment information.
                                           CTX provides a way to collect and disburse funds between
                                           companies. It is generally used by businesses paying one
 CTX          Corporate Trade Exchange
                                           another for goods or services and can support a large amount
                                           of payment information.
                                           TEL provides businesses a way to initiate ACH debits
                                           to consumers’ accounts for the purchase of goods and
                                           services. This is used when an oral authorization is obtained
                                           over the telephone. TEL can be set up for either single or
 TEL          Telephone-Initiated Entry    recurring payments. A TEL entry may only be transmitted in
                                           circumstances in which (1) there is an existing relationship
                                           between the Originator and the consumer, or (2) there is not an
                                           existing relationship, but the consumer initiated the telephone
                                           call to the Originator.
                                           WEB provides businesses a way to initiate ACH debits to
                                           consumers’ accounts for the purchase of goods or services.
              Internet-Initiated/Mobile
 WEB                                       This is used when authorization is obtained over the Internet
              Entry
                                           or Wireless Network. WEB can be set up for either single or
                                           recurring payments.
July 2024                                                                                                      1
ACH Origination Guidelines
ACH Transaction Information



Note: If you are receiving account information, to debit a consumer’s account over the Internet, Wireless
Network, or verbally over the phone, but do not have access to the WEB and/or TEL SEC Code please
reach out to your Treasury Management Officer for assistance.

Standard Company Entry Description
Effective March 20, 2026

Your company uses the Company Entry Description field to describe the purpose of the payment initiated.
Currently, the ACH Rules determine what goes in this field in certain situations (i.e., RETRY PYMT if you are
reinitiating a payment returned for insufficient funds).

This amendment requires companies initiating (1) PPD credits related to wages/salaries to input a
description of “PAYROLL” in the Company Entry Description and (2) e-commerce/online retail purchases
(WEB debits) to use “PURCHASE”.

    •   In preparation, your organization may need to update systems, policies, and procedures
        regarding Company Entry Descriptions.


Authorization Requirements

 SEC Code       Entry Type              Authorization Requirement
 PPD            Debits                  Written, signed, or Similarly Authenticated. *
 PPD            Credits                 Oral or non-written means (i.e., voided check) accepted.
                                        Agreement is required for transfers between companies; written
                                        authorization is implied. Authorizations for ACH debits are
 CCD            Debits/Credits
                                        frequently embodied in the agreements or contracts between
                                        business partners.
                                        Agreement is required for transfers between companies; written
                                        authorization is implied. Authorizations for ACH debits are
 CTX            Debits/Credits
                                        frequently embodied in the agreements or contracts between
                                        business partners.
                                        For Single Entry, you must either record the Receiver’s oral
                                        authorization or provide written notice to the consumer confirming
 TEL            Debits                  the oral authorization, prior to settlement date.
                                        For Recurring Entries, you must record the Receiver’s oral
                                        authorization and provide written notice to the consumer.
                                        Similarly Authenticated authorization is required due to the nature
 WEB            Debits
                                        of the Internet.*


*Written authorizations may be in accordance with the Electronic Signatures in Global and National
Commerce (E-Sign) Act. Electronic signatures include but are not limited to, digital signatures and
security codes.

July 2024                                                                                                     2
ACH Origination Guidelines
ACH Transaction Information


Proof of Authorization

A Receiving Depository Financial Institution (RDFI) may request, in writing, proof of authorization for all
entries. If a request is received, Simmons Bank must be able to provide proof of authorization to the RDFI
within 10 banking days from the date of the request.

You as the ACH Originator must be able to provide Simmons Bank (ODFI) with the following:

    •   For consumer entries, your company must provide a copy of the authorization.
    •   For corporate entries, you are required to provide either a copy of the authorization or contact
        information, including a contact name and phone number or email address for inquiries.


Origination Fraud Monitoring

Phase 1 Effective March 20, 2026
Companies Originating 6M+ Transactions in 2023

Phase 2 Effective June 19, 2026
All Companies Regardless of Annual Origination Activity

Currently, the ACH Rules require companies initiating WEB debit transactions and micro-entries to
use commercially reasonable means to identify and detect potential fraud. Nacha’s Board of Directors
has issued a policy statement “urging all participants to implement adequate controls and/or systems
to detect and prevent fraud.” However, a policy statement is not an enforceable rule. It is a strongly
recommended practice that ACH participants should follow.

With this amendment, your company is required to establish and implement risk-based processes and
procedures to identify entries suspected of being unauthorized or authorized under “false pretenses”
(i.e., business email compromise, vendor impersonation, payroll impersonation, account takeover). Fraud
monitoring is required regardless of the Standard Entry Class (SEC) code, or payment type, initiated and is
intended to reduce the incidence of successful fraud attempts.

    •   In preparation, your organization may need to update policies and risk-based procedures to
        identify fraudulent transactions.



Retention of Authorizations

 SEC Code       Entry Type              Retention Requirements
                                        The originator must retain a copy of the Receiver’s authorization
 PPD            Debits/Credits          for up to two (2) years from the termination or revocation of the
                                        authorization.
 CCD & CTX      Debits/Credits          The agreement should contain authorization requirements.




July 2024                                                                                                     3
ACH Origination Guidelines
ACH Returns and Notices of Change (NOCs)


                                        The originator must retain a copy of the recording of the Receiver’s
 TEL            Debits - Single Entry   oral authorization or a copy of the written notice for two (2) years
                                        from the date of the authorization.
                                        The originator must retain a copy of the recording of the Receiver’s
                Debits - Standing
 TEL                                    oral authorization or a copy of the written notice for two (2) years
                Order
                                        from the termination or revocation of the standing order.
                                        The originator must retain a copy of the recording of the Receiver’s
                Debits - Recurring
 TEL                                    oral authorization and a copy of the written notice for two (2) years
                Entries
                                        from the date of the authorization.
                                        The originator must retain a copy of the authorization and a record
 WEB            Debits
                                        of the authentication.



Standing Authorization/Subsequent Entry

Standing Authorization is an advance authorization of future Entries, given by the Receiver, to debit the
Receiver’s Consumer Account. Further action is required by the Receiver to initiate future entries.

A Subsequent Entry is an Entry initiated, by the Receiver in accordance with the terms of the Standing
Authorization.

SEC Codes for Subsequent Entries:

 Standing Authorization      Instruction by Receiver                                           SEC Code
                             The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the Internet   PPD or WEB
 Written Authorization       The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the
                                                                                               PPD or TEL
                             Telephone
                             The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the Internet   WEB
 An authorization received
 over the Internet           The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the
                                                                                               WEB or TEL
                             Telephone
                             The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the Internet   TEL or WEB
 Authorization received
 over the Telephone          The receiver’s instruction to debit was given over the
                                                                                               TEL
                             Telephone



ACH Returns

An ACH Return is an ACH entry that was unable to post to Receiver’s account and was returned by the
Receiving Depository Financial Institution (RDFI) for reasons defined below. The RDFI must return the
entry in time for Simmons Bank (ODFI) to receive it, by the opening of business on the second banking day
following the settlement date. Your company should receive the ACH return notices the same day they are
received by the ODFI. These notices will describe the reason for the return. Note: There are some return
reason codes that allow extended deadlines.


July 2024                                                                                                       4
ACH Origination Guidelines
ACH Returns and Notices of Change (NOCs)


Below are some of the more common ACH Return Codes:

 Return Code   Description of Return        Action by Originator
                                            May originate a new ACH entry within 180 days of the Settlement
 R01           Insufficient Funds           Date of the original entry. Entry must contain the words “RETRY
                                            PYMT” (all Caps) in the Company Entry Description.

                                            Stop the origination of entries with the same invalid account
                                            information. Reach out to your customer/employee to obtain
 R02           Account Closed
                                            updated information. A new authorization must be obtained for
                                            debit originations.

                                            Stop the origination of entries with the same invalid account
               No Account/Unable to         information. Reach out to your customer/employee to obtain
 R03
               Locate Account               updated information. A new authorization must be obtained for
                                            debit originations.

                                            Stop the origination of entries with the same invalid account
                                            information. Reach out to your customer/employee to obtain
 R04           Invalid Account Number
                                            updated information. A new authorization must be obtained for
                                            debit originations.

                                            Stop the origination of entries unless a new authorization can be
 R07           Authorization Revoked        obtained. Disagreements should be handled OUTSIDE of the ACH
                                            Network.

                                            Stop the origination of entries until a new consumer authorization
 R08           Payment Stopped
                                            is obtained.

                                            May originate a new ACH entry within 180 days of the Settlement
 R09           Uncollected Funds            Date of the original entry. Entry must contain the words “RETRY
                                            PYMT” (all Caps) in the Company Entry Description.

                                            Stop the origination of entries unless a new authorization can be
               Customer Advised Not
 R10                                        obtained. Disagreements should be handled OUTSIDE of the ACH
               Authorized
                                            Network.

               Customer Advises Entry
                                            May originate a new entry to correct the error. Corrected entry
 R11           Not in Accordance with
                                            must be originated within 60 days of the original Settlement Date
               Terms of the Authorization

                                            Stop the origination of entries until a new authorization is
               Corporate Customer
 R29                                        obtained. If your authorization is valid, then your company may
               Advises Not Authorized
                                            have recourse OUTSIDE of the ACH Network.




                                                                                      Continued on next page

July 2024                                                                                                        5
ACH Origination Guidelines
Erroneous or Duplicate Transaction/File


Monitoring ACH Return Activity

Simmons Bank monitors the ACH returns for debit transactions of its ACH Originators. The monitoring
includes Unauthorized Returns, Administrative Returns, and Overall Returns that exceed the allowed
thresholds established by NACHA.

Established thresholds are outlined below:

    •   Unauthorized Return Rate Threshold = 0.05%. Unauthorized Return Codes are:
           o R05, R07, R10 and R29
    •   Administrative Return Rate Threshold = 3.00%. Administrative Return Codes are:
           o R02, R03 & R04
    •   Overall Return Rate Threshold = 15.00%.

Overall returns apply to all debit entries that are returned for any reason.

You must stay within these established thresholds and act on any return notifications or notifications of
change being delivered to you for entries originated.



ACH Notices of Change (NOCs)

An NOC is not a return but a zero-dollar transaction, sent by the RDFI, to notify you that the information
used to originate the transaction is no longer valid. If the RDFI can recognize the intended account, it will
post the entry to the Receiver’s account and notify your company of any necessary changes. Many NOCs
are the result of merger or consolidation at the RDFI, which requires changes to the Receiver’s account
information.

Below are some of the more common NOC Codes:

 NOC Code       Description of NOC                    Action by Originator
                The account number is incorrect       Change the Receiver’s account number to the correct
 C01
                or is formatted incorrectly           information.
                The routing number that was           Change the Receiver’s routing number to the correct
 C02
                once valid must be changed            information.
                The routing Number and Account        Change the Receiver’s routing number and account
 C03
                Number are incorrect                  number to the correct information.
                Transaction Code is incorrect.
                Example: An entry was sent as a
 C05                                                  Change the type of account.
                DDA transaction but is going to a
                Savings account, or vice versa.




July 2024                                                                                                       6
ACH Origination Guidelines
Verifying a Receiver’s Account Number


Action on Notification of Change
Effective Date: June 21, 2024

If the account information your company receives from a payee (i.e., employee, customer, vendor) is
correct, the payment will automatically be processed in the payee’s account. If account information is
incorrect, the payee’s financial institution may manually process the payment and send and Notification of
Change (NOC). A Notification of Change Report shows the information made in error with the corrected
information and will be provided by the financial institution.

If your company sends recurring payments (i.e., daily, bi-weekly, monthly), you are required to update
the incorrect information before processing the next payment or within six banking days of receiving the
Notification of Change information.

If your company initiates a single or one-time payment to a payee’s account, at your discretion, make the
changes noted in the Notification of Change. Any type of one-time originated payment is covered under
this amendment.

    •   In preparation, your organization may need to update policies and procedures regarding
        Notification of Change Reports.


Reversals

An erroneous entry or file can contain the wrong amount, is a duplicate of a previous file/transaction or
was sent to an unintended party. The reversal of these entries must be transmitted within five (5) banking
days from the Settlement Date of the erroneous or duplicate entry or file.

Note: This is an attempt to pull back funds and not a guarantee. There is a chance a reversal can be
returned due to insufficient or uncollected funds.

As the Originator, you must make a reasonable attempt to notify the Receiver that a reversing entry has
been sent to their account, with the reason for the reversal, no later than the Settlement Date of the
reversing entry.

When the reversal is originated the word “REVERSAL” (in all Caps) must appear in the Company Entry
Description field in the Company/Batch Header Record.

Improper use of a reversing entry would include:

    •   The Originator or Third-Party Sender failed to provide funding for the original entry.
    •   Initiating a reversing entry outside of the five (5) banking days of the settlement date.

Reversal reasons can include:

    •   Duplicate payment
    •   Incorrect payment recipient
    •   Incorrect payment amount
    •   Payment date earlier than intended (debit only)
    •   Payment date later than intended (credit only)

July 2024                                                                                                    7
ACH Origination Guidelines


Retry/Reinitiate Return Entries

Containing below information Returned ACH Transactions can only be reinitiated only if:

    •    The item was returned as insufficient funds.
    •    The item was returned due to uncollected funds.
    •    The item is within 180 days after the settlement date of the original entry.
    •    The item has not been returned insufficient or uncollected more than two (2) times following the
         return of the original entry.
             o Note: The Company Entry Description filed must contain the word “RETRY PMT” (all caps)
                 and the contents of the Company Name, Company Identification, and the Amount fields
                 of the reinitiated entry must be identical to the original entry.


Before initiating the first debit or credit to a Receiver’s account, an Originator may use one of the following
methods to verify that the Recipient’s account number is valid:


Prenotification Entries (Prenotes)

Prenotes are zero-dollar entries sent to a Receiver’s account to verify the account number is a valid
account at the Receiving Bank (RDFI). Prenotes do not validate ownership of the account. Typically,
prenotes are only sent prior to transmitting the first credit or debit payment to the Receiver’s account. A
recent rule change removes the language limiting prenotes to this use. Therefore, your company may send
prenotifications at its discretion.

After three (3) banking days of the Settlement Date of the prenote, provided the ODFI has not received a
Return or Notification of Change (NOC), an Originator may initiate Entries to the Receiver’s account.

If an NOC is received the Originator must make the correcting entries prior to initiating future Entries
to the Receiver’s account. If an ACH Return is received the Originator must reach out to the Receiver for
updated account information.

    •    Language limiting prenotes to this use has been removed. Your company may send prenotes as
         required by your financial institution or at your discretion.


Micro-Entries:

    a. May be credit or debits
    b. May initiate one or more to a Receiver’s account
    c. Entries must be less than $1.00
    d. One or more debit micro-entries may NOT exceed the total amount of credit micro-entries
           i. Whether originating debit or credit micro-entries settlement must occur at the same time.
    b. The Company Name must be recognizable by the Receiver & the same (or similar) to that for future

The Company Entry Description field must contain “ACCTVERIFY” (all caps)



July 2024                                                                                                     8
ACH Origination Guidelines


Note: If originating micro-entries, you must conduct commercially reasonable fraud detection by
monitoring forward and return volumes.



For more information regarding the ACH Rules please visit Nacha - Homepage | Nacha




July 2024                                                                                         9
