    Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 8
                                        August 2023




Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting

    Chapter 5, Recognition and Derecognition
Copyright © 2023 by Financial Accounting Foundation. All rights reserved.
Certain portions may include material copyrighted by American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants. Content copyrighted by Financial Accounting
Foundation, or any third parties who have not provided specific permission,
may not be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form
or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or
otherwise, without the prior written permission of the Financial Accounting
Foundation or such applicable third party. Financial Accounting Foundation
claims no copyright in any portion hereof that constitutes a work of the United
States Government.
       Statement of Financial Accounting
                         Concepts No. 8

                                                  August 2023




Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting

          Chapter 5, Recognition and Derecognition




            Financial Accounting Standards Board
         801 MAIN AVENUE, PO BOX 5116, NORWALK, CONNECTICUT 06856-5116
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 8

Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting

Chapter 5, Recognition and Derecognition

August 2023

CONTENTS
                                                                                                    Paragraph
                                                                                                     Numbers

Chapter 5: Recognition and Derecognition........................................... RD1–RD14
   Introduction ....................................................................................... RD1–RD2
   Recognition ................................................................................................ RD3
   Recognition Criteria .......................................................................... RD4–RD7
   Element Definitions .................................................................................... RD8
   Measurability ................................................................................... RD9–RD11
   Faithful Representation ............................................................................ RD12
   Derecognition ................................................................................ RD13–RD14
Appendix A: Basis for Conclusions................................................. BC5.1–BC5.11
   Introduction .................................................................................. BC5.1–BC5.3
   Recognition Criteria and the Qualitative Characteristics .......................... BC5.4
   Measurability Criterion ................................................................. BC5.5–BC5.7
   Faithful Representation and Relevance Criteria .......................... BC5.8–BC5.9
   Derecognition ........................................................................... BC5.10–BC5.11
Appendix B: Concepts Statement 5 Marked to Show Superseded Text............ B1
Appendix C: Amendments to the Conceptual Framework for
 Financial Reporting .................................................................................. C1–C8
   Amendments to Chapter 4, Elements of Financial Statements,
     of Concepts Statement 8 ............................................................................ C2
   Amendments to Chapter 7, Presentation, of Concepts Statement 8 ............. C3
   Amendments to Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements,
     of Concepts Statement 8 ..................................................................... C4–C7
   Amendments to Concepts Statement 7 ........................................................ C8
Conceptual Framework for Financial
Reporting
CHAPTER 5: RECOGNITION AND DERECOGNITION

Introduction
RD1. This chapter sets forth recognition and derecognition criteria to guide when
an item should be incorporated into and removed from financial statements. This
chapter builds on the foundation described in other concepts, bringing those
concepts together to apply them to recognition and derecognition issues.

RD2. A reporting entity achieves the objective of general purpose financial
reporting by providing a full set of financial statements including financial
information about the reporting entity’s (a) resources, (b) claims to those
resources, and (c) changes in those resources and claims during the period. The
recognition and derecognition criteria provide concepts for the Board to consider
when determining whether an item should be recognized or derecognized in
financial statements of a reporting entity.

Recognition
RD3. Recognition is the process of incorporating an item in financial statements of
a reporting entity as an asset, liability, equity, revenue, gain, expense, loss, or
investment by or distribution to owners. A recognized item is depicted in both
words and numbers, with the amount included in financial statement totals. For an
asset or a liability, recognition involves recording the acquisition or incurrence of
the item and later changes in the item (related to measurement), including changes
that result in its removal from financial statements (as addressed in paragraphs
RD13 and RD14). Because recognition means the depiction of an item in both
words and numbers, with the amount included in the totals of financial statements,
disclosure of an amount by any other means is not a substitution for recognition.

Recognition Criteria
RD4. The recognition criteria are intended to provide direction for resolving issues
that involve accounting recognition. The reporting entity’s assets, liabilities, equity,
and changes in those elements are candidates for recognition in financial
statements.

RD5. An item and its financial information should meet three recognition criteria to
be recognized in financial statements, subject to the pervasive cost constraint and
materiality considerations. Those criteria are:



                                                                                      1
    a.   Definitions—The item meets the definition of an element of financial
         statements.
    b.   Measurability—The item is measurable and has a relevant measurement
         attribute.
    c.   Faithful Representation—The item can be depicted and measured with
         faithful representation.

RD6. Items recognized in accordance with the criteria in paragraph RD5 would
meet the fundamental qualitative characteristic of relevance, as discussed in
Chapter 3, Qualitative Characteristics of Useful Financial Information, of this
Concepts Statement. Relevant financial information is capable of making a
difference in the decisions made by users. To be relevant, financial information
about an item must have predictive value, confirmatory value, or both.

RD7. All three criteria are subject to the cost constraint: the benefits from
recognizing a particular item should justify the costs of providing and using the
financial information. Recognition also is subject to materiality considerations. The
cost constraint and materiality are discussed in Chapter 3 of this Concepts
Statement.

Element Definitions
RD8. An item must meet the definition of an element in Chapter 4, Elements of
Financial Statements, of this Concepts Statement to be recognized in financial
statements. Recognizing an item that does not meet the definition of an element
would be inconsistent with the fundamental qualitative characteristic of faithful
representation by misrepresenting a reporting entity’s (a) resources, (b) claims to
those resources, or (c) changes in those resources and claims during the period.

Measurability
RD9. An item must be measurable with a relevant measurement attribute to be
recognized in financial statements. A relevant measurement attribute for an item
being considered for recognition cannot be determined in isolation. Relevance
should be evaluated in the context of the objective of general purpose financial
reporting: providing financial information about a reporting entity that is useful to
existing and potential investors, lenders, and other resource providers in making
decisions about providing resources to the entity.

RD10. The decision usefulness of financial information may be affected by the
degree of measurement uncertainty. However, an item that has measurement
uncertainty may still provide decision-useful financial information to resource
providers through confirmatory value or predictive value. Furthermore, the
measurement of that item can be faithfully represented if the measurement
process is (a) complete, (b) neutral, and (c) free from error. Disclosures may be
necessary to provide information about measurement uncertainty.




2
RD11. Measurement uncertainty also may relate to the existence of that item
rather than its measurement. If the existence of an item is uncertain, that item
would presumably fail to meet the definition of an element (the first criterion; see
paragraph RD5(a)) and, therefore, would not be recognized in financial
statements.

Faithful Representation
RD12. Faithful representation, as discussed in Chapter 3 of this Concepts
Statement, is a fundamental qualitative characteristic. To be useful, financial
information not only must represent relevant phenomena, but it also must faithfully
represent the phenomena that it purports to represent. Financial information that
is faithfully represented must be complete, neutral, and free from error. To achieve
the objective of general purpose financial reporting, an item recognized in financial
statements must be depicted and measured with faithful representation.

Derecognition
RD13. Derecognition is the process of removing an item from financial statements
of a reporting entity as an asset, liability, or equity. Derecognition should occur
when an item no longer meets any one of the recognition criteria in paragraph
RD5. For example, an item should not continue to be recognized if it does not meet
the definition of an element because continued recognition of that item would
violate the definitions recognition criterion.

RD14. In certain arrangements, an entity may have continuing involvement in the
asset, liability, or equity item that is being evaluated for derecognition. The nature
and extent of the continuing involvement may influence the derecognition
consideration at the standards level. However, that involvement also may create
rights or obligations that meet the recognition requirements of paragraph RD5 and
therefore should be recognized to faithfully represent the results of the
arrangement.


This chapter of Concepts Statement 8 was adopted by the affirmative vote of five
members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Dr. Joseph abstained. Ms.
Botosan dissented.

Ms. Botosan does not support certain aspects of this chapter at this time for the
following reasons.

This chapter includes three criteria for the FASB to consider in decisions about the
recognition of items in financial statements. Ms. Botosan agrees that an item must
meet the definition of an element to be recognized in the financial statements. Ms.
Botosan also agrees that to be recognized, an item must have a relevant
measurement attribute that is measurable. Ms. Botosan is concerned, therefore,
that the Conceptual Framework lacks measurement concepts, such that the



                                                                                    3
concept of what is a “relevant” measurement attribute remains unaddressed within
the framework.

Ms. Botosan believes that this omission will significantly challenge the practical
application of the recognition concepts. Furthermore, Ms. Botosan is concerned
that the omission undermines the ability of the Conceptual Framework to act as “a
coherent system of interrelated objectives and fundamental concepts.”1 Ms.
Botosan notes that in the basis for conclusions of Chapter 2, The Reporting Entity,
the Board acknowledges the importance of coherence within the framework.
Specifically, the basis for conclusions states that “because the Conceptual
Framework is intended to be a coherent system of interrelated objectives and
fundamental concepts, there is a need to develop a concept of the reporting
entity.”2 Similarly, because recognition depends on having a relevant
measurement attribute, Ms. Botosan believes that there is an equally pressing
need for the Conceptual Framework to address what constitutes such an attribute.

Ms. Botosan believes that in the absence of concepts that address what
constitutes a relevant measurement attribute, the existing broad relevance
criterion for recognition should be retained. That criterion requires that information
about an item must be capable of making a difference in user decisions, which is
broader than the criterion of a relevant measurement attribute. Ms. Botosan
believes that removal of the broad relevant criterion places considerably more
pressure on the absent concept of a relevant measurement attribute.
Consequently, Ms. Botosan would have preferred to finalize this chapter after the
completion of the chapter on measurement, which is currently in initial
deliberations.

Ms. Botosan notes that her concern is not new but also was expressed 39 years
ago in a 1984 dissent to FASB Concepts Statement No. 5, Recognition and
Measurement in Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, which has been
replaced by this chapter. Specifically, Board member John W. March predicted that
Concepts Statement 5 would not offer sufficient guidance for the work of the Board
because “to be useful, it needs to be supplemented with more specific guidance
for selecting measurement attributes for specific assets, liabilities, and
transactions.”

In addition, Ms. Botosan does not support the faithful representation criterion
because she believes that faithful representation as it is explained in Chapter 3,
Qualitative Characteristics of Useful Financial Information, is a vacuous concept
and that a criterion based on this concept will play little, if any, role in recognition
considerations. Paragraph QC12 of Chapter 3 states that “financial reports
represent economic phenomena in words and numbers” and “to be useful, financial
information . . . must faithfully represent the phenomena that it purports to
represent.” However, faithful representation is operationalized with a focus on any

1
 Chapter 1, The Objective of General Purpose Financial Reporting, first page of “Statements
of Financial Accounting Concepts.”
2
 Chapter 2, The Reporting Entity, paragraph BC2.3.



4
measurement attribute that is “complete, neutral, and free from error.” For
example, Chapter 3 states that the representation of an estimate can be faithful if
“the amount is described clearly and accurately as being an estimate, the nature
and limitations of the estimating process are explained, and no errors have been
made in selecting and applying an appropriate process for developing the
estimate” (paragraph QC15). Furthermore, an estimate “can be a faithful
representation if the reporting entity has applied properly an appropriate process,
described properly the estimate, and explained any uncertainties that significantly
affect the estimate” (paragraph QC16). Thus, a fair value estimate is deemed to
be a faithful representation of the fair value measurement attribute if the reporting
entity has applied properly an appropriate process for estimating fair value,
described properly the fair value estimate, and explained any uncertainties that
significantly affect the fair value estimate. Similarly, a historical cost estimate of the
historical cost measurement attribute or any other measurement estimate
corresponding to its measurement attribute is deemed to be a faithful
representation of the measurement attribute if the reporting entity has applied
properly an appropriate process for estimating the measurement attribute,
described properly the estimate, and explained any uncertainties that significantly
affect the estimate.

Given this and consistent with the majority of comment letters received in response
to the Exposure Draft on this chapter, Ms. Botosan cannot conceive of an instance
in which an item could meet the definition of an element and be measurable and
have a relevant measurement attribute (assuming that concept were delineated)
but the item could not be depicted and measured with faithful representation as
that concept is described in Chapter 3. Accordingly, Ms. Botosan does not support
the inclusion of faithful representation as a standalone recognition criterion.

Members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board:

                              Richard R. Jones, Chair
                              James L. Kroeker, Vice Chairman
                              Christine A. Botosan
                              Frederick L. Cannon
                              Susan M. Cosper
                              Marsha L. Hunt
                              Joyce T. Joseph




                                                                                        5
Appendix A: Basis for Conclusions
Introduction
BC5.1. The following basis for conclusions summarizes the Board’s considerations
in reaching the conclusions in this chapter. It includes reasons for accepting some
alternatives and rejecting others. Individual Board members gave greater weight
to some factors than others.

BC5.2. Recognition concepts were previously set forth in FASB Concepts
Statement No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of
Business Enterprises. The Board concluded that the discussion of the recognition
concepts in Concepts Statement 5 could be further developed and improved with
the objective of providing a foundation for future standards for business and not-
for-profit entities. The decisions reflect changes to the fundamental qualitative
characteristics of useful financial information since Concepts Statement 5 was
originally issued in 1984.

BC5.3. Concepts Statement 5 did not explicitly address the issue of derecognition.
The Board decided to develop conceptual guidance to address that issue to
provide a more comprehensive framework on which to evaluate future standard-
setting decisions.

Recognition Criteria and the Qualitative Characteristics
BC5.4. Some of the recognition criteria in this chapter are derived from the
qualitative characteristics of useful financial information in Chapter 3 of this
Concepts Statement. To be consistent with the fundamental qualitative
characteristics described in Chapter 3, the following changes were made to the
recognition criteria in Concepts Statement 5:

    a.   The phrase sufficient reliability was removed from the measurability
         criterion.
    b.   The reliability criterion was replaced with the faithful representation
         criterion.
    c.   The relevance criterion was not retained; however, the fundamental
         qualitative characteristic of relevance is inherent in all three recognition
         criteria.

The Board concluded that an item recognized in financial statements must meet
the definition of an element. Recognizing an item that does not meet the definition
of an element would be inconsistent with the objective of general purpose financial
reporting. As such, the Board decided to retain the elements criterion described in
Concept Statement 5.




                                                                                   7
Measurability Criterion
BC5.5. The measurability criterion in Concepts Statement 5 contains language that
is susceptible to alternative interpretations. For example, it is not clear whether the
phrase sufficient reliability refers to the fundamental qualitative characteristic of
reliability as was defined in FASB Concepts Statement No. 2, Qualitative
Characteristics of Accounting Information (superseded), or to a notion of precision.

BC5.6. As discussed in paragraph 76 of Concepts Statement 5 (as issued), the
term sufficient refers to the level of uncertainty involving the measurement of an
item. Certain items, such as contingencies, are susceptible to measurement
uncertainty. While the passage of time in many cases reduces or resolves
measurement uncertainty, waiting until the measurement of an item is sufficiently
reliable could result in the delayed recognition of an item that meets the definition
of an element and can, despite its measurement uncertainty, be faithfully
represented. Consequently, that delayed recognition may reduce the usefulness
of the financial information that is presented in financial statements. Therefore, the
Board concluded that the phrase sufficient reliability may refer to the act of only
recognizing items that can be measured with an unspecified degree of certainty
when a reporting entity identifies an item that meets the definition of an element.

BC5.7. The Board concluded that to reduce ambiguity in the measurability
criterion, the phrase sufficient reliability should be removed. However, an item that
meets the definition of an element should be recognized in financial statements
when it can be (a) measured with a relevant measurement attribute and (b)
faithfully represented through depiction and measurement—although, as noted in
paragraph RD10, the degree of measurement uncertainty may affect the decision
usefulness of the financial information.

Faithful Representation and Relevance Criteria
BC5.8. When Concepts Statement 5 was issued, relevance and reliability were
fundamental qualitative characteristics in Concepts Statement 2. Concepts
Statement 2 has since been superseded by Chapter 3 of this Concepts Statement.
Chapter 3 identifies relevance and faithful representation as fundamental
qualitative characteristics. In the basis for conclusions of Chapter 3, the Board
concluded that the term faithful representation “encompasses the main
characteristics that the previous frameworks included as aspects of reliability.”
Therefore, the Board concluded that the reliability criterion, along with its
explanatory paragraphs, should be updated to refer to faithful representation and
its aspects of (a) completeness, (b) neutrality, and (c) freedom from error.

BC5.9. The Board also concluded that the relevance of an item, subject to
materiality considerations, is inherently met when the item meets the definition of
an element, can be measured using a relevant measurement attribute, and can be
faithfully represented. As such, the Board decided to remove the relevance
criterion as a standalone recognition criterion. However, because a relevant item



8
can still be measured with an irrelevant measurement attribute, the Board decided
that the fundamental qualitative characteristic of relevance would remain in the
measurability criterion as discussed in paragraph BC5.7.

Derecognition
BC5.10. Concepts Statement 5 does not explicitly address the issue of
derecognition. The Board decided that, conceptually, derecognition should occur
when an asset, liability, or equity element no longer meets one of the recognition
criteria.

BC5.11. An entity may have continuing involvement in an item that is being
evaluated for derecognition (for example, an option to repurchase an item that was
sold). The Board decided that when this circumstance occurs, continuing to
recognize the original item would be inappropriate if the original item no longer
meets the criteria in paragraph RD5. In developing standards, the Board should
evaluate whether the continuing involvement results in a new item that meets the
criteria in paragraph RD5. If so, that new item should be recognized (for example,
recognizing an option and derecognizing the original item sold). The Board
concluded that in this scenario, a failure to derecognize the original item and to
recognize the new item would not be a faithful representation.




                                                                                9
Appendix B: Concepts Statement 5 Marked to
Show Superseded Text
B1.   The outlined text is superseded by this chapter.

NOTE: The text highlighted in grey has been previously superseded by chapters
in this Concepts Statement. The outlined text is superseded by this chapter. The
superseded text is left in the document for context. Mr. March’s dissent has not
been edited because portions of his dissent may be applicable to areas that have
been retained in Concepts Statement 5.

Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts
      This Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts is one of a series of
publications in the Board’s conceptual framework for financial accounting and
reporting. Statements in the series are intended to set forth objectives and
fundamentals that will be the basis for development of financial accounting and
reporting standards. The objectives identify the goals and purposes of financial
reporting. The fundamentals are the underlying concepts of financial accounting—
concepts that guide the selection of transactions, events, and circumstances to be
accounted for; their recognition and measurement; and the means of summarizing
and communicating them to interested parties. Concepts of that type are
fundamental in the sense that other concepts flow from them and repeated
reference to them will be necessary in establishing, interpreting, and applying
accounting and reporting standards.
      The conceptual framework is a coherent system of interrelated objectives and
fundamentals that is expected to lead to consistent standards and that prescribes
the nature, function, and limits of financial accounting and reporting. It is expected
to serve the public interest by providing structure and direction to financial
accounting and reporting to facilitate the provision of evenhanded financial and
related information that helps promote the efficient allocation of scarce resources
in the economy and society, including assisting capital and other markets to
function efficiently.
      Establishment of objectives and identification of fundamental concepts will not
directly solve financial accounting and reporting problems. Rather, objectives give
direction, and concepts are tools for solving problems.
      The Board itself is likely to be the most direct beneficiary of the guidance
provided by the Statements in this series. They will guide the Board in developing
accounting and reporting standards by providing the Board with a common
foundation and basic reasoning on which to consider merits of alternatives.
      However, knowledge of the objectives and concepts the Board will use in
developing standards also should enable those who are affected by or interested
in financial accounting standards to understand better the purposes, content, and
characteristics of information provided by financial accounting and reporting. That
knowledge is expected to enhance the usefulness of, and confidence in, financial



                                                                                   11
accounting and reporting. The concepts also may provide some guidance in
analyzing new or emerging problems of financial accounting and reporting in the
absence of applicable authoritative pronouncements.
      Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts do not establish standards
prescribing accounting procedures or disclosure practices for particular items or
events, which are issued by the Board as Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards. Rather, Statements in this series describe concepts and relations that
will underlie future financial accounting standards and practices and in due course
serve as a basis for evaluating existing standards and practices. *
      The Board recognizes that in certain respects current generally accepted
accounting principles may be inconsistent with those that may derive from the
objectives and concepts set forth in Statements in this series. However, a
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts does not (a) require a change in
existing generally accepted accounting principles; (b) amend, modify, or interpret
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards, Interpretations of the FASB,
Opinions of the Accounting Principles Board, or Bulletins of the Committee on
Accounting Procedure that are in effect; or (c) justify either changing existing
generally accepted accounting and reporting practices or interpreting the
pronouncements listed in item (b) based on personal interpretations of the
objectives and concepts in the Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts.
      Since a Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts does not establish
generally accepted accounting principles or standards for the disclosure of
financial information outside of financial statements in published financial reports,
it is not intended to invoke application of Rule 203 or 204 of the Rules of Conduct
of the Code of Professional Ethics of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (or successor rules or arrangements of similar scope and intent). †
      Like other pronouncements of the Board, a Statement of Financial Accounting
Concepts may be amended, superseded, or withdrawn by appropriate action
under the Board’s Rules of Procedure.




*Pronouncements such as APB Statement No. 4, Basic Concepts and Accounting Principles

Underlying Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, and the Accounting Terminology
Bulletins will continue to serve their intended purpose—they describe objectives and
concepts underlying standards and practices existing at the time of their issuance.
†Rule 203 prohibits a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants from

expressing an opinion that financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting
principles if those statements contain a material departure from an accounting principle
promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, unless the member can
demonstrate that because of unusual circumstances financial statements otherwise would
have been misleading. Rule 204 requires members of the Institute to justify departures from
standards promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board for the disclosure of
information outside of financial statements in published financial reports.



12
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5

Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of
Business Enterprises

December 1984


CONTENTS
                                                                                                     Paragraph
                                                                                                      Numbers

Highlights
Introduction, Scope, and Limitations .................................................................1–4
Financial Statements .......................................................................................5–57
     Financial Statements, Financial Reporting, and Recognition .....................5–9
     Financial Statements and Objectives of Financial Reporting .................10–12
     Full Set of Financial Statements.............................................................13–14
     Purposes and Limitations of Financial Statements.................................15–24
          General Purpose Financial Statements and Individual Users .........15–16
          Usefulness of Financial Statements, Individually and Collectively ..17–24
               Classification and Aggregation in Financial Statements ..........20–22
               Complementary Nature of Financial Statements .....................23–24
     Individual Financial Statements .............................................................25–57
          Statement of Financial Position.......................................................26–29
          Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income .....................30–51
               Earnings...................................................................................33–38
               Comprehensive Income ...........................................................39–41
               Relationships between Earnings and Comprehensive
                Income ...................................................................................42–44
               Financial Capital Maintenance .................................................45–48
               Recognition Implications of Earnings .......................................49–51
          Statement of Cash Flows ................................................................52–54
          Statement of Investments by and Distributions to Owners ..............55–57
Recognition Criteria .......................................................................................58–77
     Purposes of Criteria .............................................................................. 59–60
     Structure of Recognition Criteria ............................................................61–62
     Fundamental Recognition Criteria ..........................................................63–77
          Definitions .............................................................................................64
          Measurability ...................................................................................65–72
               Measurement Attributes ...........................................................66–70




                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                       Paragraph
                                                                                                        Numbers

              Monetary Unit or Measurement Scale......................................71–72
        Relevance .......................................................................................73–74
        Reliability.........................................................................................75–77
Guidance in Applying Criteria to Components of Earnings ............................78–87
    Revenues and Gains..............................................................................83–84
    Expenses and Losses ............................................................................85–87
        Consumption of Benefits .......................................................................86
        Loss or Lack of Future Benefit ..............................................................87
Recognition of Changes in Assets and Liabilities ..........................................88–90
Summary .............................................................................................................91
Appendix: Background Information ............................................................. 92–108
Summary Index of Concepts Defined or Discussed




14
                                HIGHLIGHTS
                  [Best understood in context of full Statement]


•   This Statement sets forth recognition criteria and guidance on what
    information should be incorporated into financial statements and when. The
    Statement provides a basis for consideration of criteria and guidance by first
    addressing financial statements that should be presented and their
    contribution to financial reporting. It gives particular attention to statements of
    earnings and comprehensive income. The Statement also addresses certain
    measurement issues that are closely related to recognition.
•   Financial statements are a central feature of financial reporting—a principal
    means of communicating financial information to those outside an entity.
    Some useful information is better provided by financial statements and some
    is better provided, or can only be provided, by notes to financial statements,
    supplementary information, or other means of financial reporting. For items
    that meet criteria for recognition, disclosure by other means is not a substitute
    for recognition in financial statements.
•   Recognition is the process of formally incorporating an item in the financial
    statements of an entity as an asset, liability, revenue, expense, or the like. A
    recognized item is depicted in both words and numbers, with the amount
    included in the statement totals.
•   A full set of financial statements for a period should show:
    – Financial position at the end of the period
    – Earnings for the period
    – Comprehensive income for the period
    – Cash flows during the period
    – Investments by and distributions to owners during the period.
•   Financial statements individually and collectively contribute to meeting the
    objectives of financial reporting. No one financial statement is likely to provide
    all the financial statement information that is useful for a particular kind of
    decision.
•   The parts of a financial statement also contribute to meeting the objectives of
    financial reporting and may be more useful to those who make investment,
    credit, and similar decisions than the whole.
•   Financial statements result from simplifying, condensing, and aggregating
    masses of data. As a result, they convey information that would be obscured
    if great detail were provided. Although those simplifications, condensations,
    and aggregations are both necessary and useful, the Board believes that it is
    important to avoid focusing attention almost exclusively on “the bottom line,”
    earnings per share, or other highly simplified condensations.
•   A statement of financial position provides information about an entity’s assets,
    liabilities, and equity and their relationships to each other at a moment in time.
    The statement delineates the entity’s resource structure—major classes and
    amounts of assets—and its financing structure—major classes and amounts
    of liabilities and equity.



                                                                                    15
•    A statement of financial position does not purport to show the value of a
     business enterprise but, together with other financial statements and other
     information, should provide information that is useful to those who desire to
     make their own estimates of the enterprise’s value. Those estimates are part
     of financial analysis, not of financial reporting, but financial accounting aids
     financial analysis.
•    Statements of earnings and of comprehensive income together reflect the
     extent to which and the ways in which the equity of an entity increased or
     decreased from all sources other than transactions with owners during a
     period.
•    The concept of earnings set forth in this Statement is similar to net income for
     a period in present practice; however, it excludes certain accounting
     adjustments of earlier periods that are recognized in the current period—
     cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is the principal example
     from present practice. The Board expects the concept of earnings to be
     subject to the process of gradual change or evolution that has characterized
     the development of net income.
•    Earnings is a measure of entity performance during a period. It measures the
     extent to which asset inflows (revenues and gains) associated with cash-to-
     cash cycles substantially completed during the period exceed asset outflows
     (expenses and losses) associated, directly or indirectly, with the same cycles.
•    Comprehensive income is a broad measure of the effects of transactions and
     other events on an entity, comprising all recognized changes in equity (net
     assets) of the entity during a period from transactions and other events and
     circumstances except those resulting from investments by owners and
     distributions to owners.
•    A variety of terms are used for net income in present practice. The Board
     anticipates that a variety of terms will be used in future financial statements
     as names for earnings (for example, net income, profit, or net loss) and for
     comprehensive income (for example, total nonowner changes in equity or
     comprehensive loss).
•    Earnings and comprehensive income are not the same because certain gains
     and losses are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from
     earnings. Those items fall into two classes that are illustrated by certain
     present practices:
     – Effects of certain accounting adjustments of earlier periods that are
           recognized in the current period (already described)
     – Certain other changes in net assets (principally certain holding gains and
           losses) that are recognized in the period but are excluded from earnings,
           such as some changes in market values of investments in marketable
           equity securities classified as noncurrent assets, some changes in market
           values of investments in industries having specialized accounting
           practices for marketable securities, and foreign currency translation
           adjustments.
•    The full set of financial statements discussed in this Statement is based on
     the concept of financial capital maintenance.




16
•   Future standards may change what is recognized as components of earnings.
    Future standards may also recognize certain changes in net assets as
    components of comprehensive income but not of earnings.
•   A statement of cash flows directly or indirectly reflects an entity’s cash receipts
    classified by major sources and its cash payments classified by major uses
    during a period, including cash flow information about its operating, financing,
    and investing activities.
•   A statement of investments by and distributions to owners reflects an entity’s
    capital transactions during a period—the extent to which and in what ways the
    equity of the entity increased or decreased from transactions with owners as
    owners.
•   An item and information about it should meet four fundamental recognition
    criteria to be recognized and should be recognized when the criteria are met,
    subject to a cost-benefit constraint and a materiality threshold. Those criteria
    are:
    –   Definitions. The item meets the definition of an element of financial
        statements.
    –   Measurability. It has a relevant attribute measurable with sufficient
        reliability.
    –   Relevance. The information about it is capable of making a difference in
        user decisions.
    –   Reliability. The information is representationally faithful, verifiable, and
        neutral.
•   Items currently reported in the financial statements are measured by different
    attributes (for example, historical cost, current [replacement] cost, current
    market value, net realizable value, and present value of future cash flows),
    depending on the nature of the item and the relevance and reliability of the
    attribute measured. The Board expects use of different attributes to continue.
•   The monetary unit or measurement scale in current practice in financial
    statements is nominal units of money, that is, unadjusted for changes in
    purchasing power of money over time. The Board expects that nominal units
    of money will continue to be used to measure items recognized in financial
    statements.
•   Further guidance in applying the criteria for recognizing components of
    earnings is necessary because of the widely acknowledged importance of
    earnings as a primary measure of entity performance. Guidance for
    recognizing components of earnings is concerned with identifying which
    cycles are substantially complete and with associating particular revenues,
    gains, expenses, and losses with those cycles.
•   In assessing the prospect that as yet uncompleted transactions will be
    concluded successfully, a degree of skepticism is often warranted. As a
    reaction to uncertainty, more stringent requirements have historically been
    imposed for recognizing revenues and gains as components of earnings than
    for recognizing expenses and losses. Those conservative reactions influence
    the guidance for applying the recognition criteria to components of earnings.
•   Guidance for recognizing revenues and gains is based on their being:




                                                                                    17
     –   Realized or realizable. Revenues and gains are generally not recognized
         as components of earnings until realized or realizable and
     –   Earned. Revenues are not recognized until earned. Revenues are
         considered to have been earned when the entity has substantially
         accomplished what it must do to be entitled to the benefits represented
         by the revenues. For gains, being earned is generally less significant than
         being realized or realizable.
•    Guidance for expenses and losses is intended to recognize:
     – Consumption of benefit. Expenses are generally recognized when an
         entity’s economic benefits are consumed in revenue-earning activities or
         otherwise or
     – Loss or lack of benefit. Expenses or losses are recognized if it becomes
         evident that previously recognized future economic benefits of assets
         have been reduced or eliminated, or that liabilities have been incurred or
         increased, without associated economic benefits.
•    In a limited number of situations, the Board may determine that the most
     useful information results from recognizing the effects of certain events in
     comprehensive income but not in earnings, and set standards accordingly.
     Certain changes in net assets that meet the fundamental recognition criteria
     may qualify for recognition in comprehensive income even though they do not
     qualify for recognition as components of earnings.
•    Information based on current prices should be recognized if it is sufficiently
     relevant and reliable to justify the costs involved and more relevant than
     alternative information.
•    Most aspects of current practice are consistent with the recognition criteria
     and guidance in this Statement, but the criteria and guidance do not foreclose
     the possibility of future changes in practice. When evidence indicates that
     information that is more useful (relevant and reliable) than information
     currently reported is available at a justifiable cost, it should be included in
     financial statements.




18
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 5

Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of
Business Enterprises

December 1984

INTRODUCTION, SCOPE, AND LIMITATIONS
1.    This Statement sets forth fundamental recognition criteria and guidance on
what information should be formally incorporated into financial statements and
when. It builds on the foundation laid by earlier concepts Statements, bringing
those concepts together to apply them to broad recognition issues. As a basis for
considering recognition criteria, the Statement first addresses financial statements
that should be presented and how those financial statements contribute to the
objectives of financial reporting. Both that discussion and the later discussion of
recognition give particular attention to statements of earnings and comprehensive
income.
2.    The recognition criteria and guidance in this Statement are generally
consistent with current practice and do not imply radical change. Nor do they
foreclose the possibility of future changes in practice. The Board intends future
change to occur in the gradual, evolutionary way that has characterized past
change.
3.     This Statement also addresses certain measurement issues that are closely
related to recognition. Measurement involves choice of an attribute by which to
quantify a recognized item and choice of a scale of measurement (often called
“unit of measure”). The Statement notes that different attributes are currently used
to measure different items in financial statements and that the Board expects the
use of different attributes to continue. The Statement further notes that the
measurement scale in current practice is nominal units of money (that is,
unadjusted for changes in purchasing power over time) and that the Board expects
use of nominal units to continue.
4.     This Statement is not intended to apply to organizations other than business
enterprises. Recognition criteria and guidance on what information should be
formally incorporated into financial statements of nonbusiness organizations can
be considered only after completion of another Board project that concerns
significant underlying concepts upon which recognition criteria and guidance are
built. The Board issued its Exposure Draft, Proposed Amendments to FASB
Concepts Statements 2 and 3 to Apply Them to Nonbusiness Organizations, on
July 7, 1983 and held public hearings on that matter on November 14 and 15,
1983. Since that project is still in progress, all references in this Statement are to
the original Statements, FASB Concepts Statements No. 2, Qualitative
Characteristics of Accounting Information, and No. 3, Elements of Financial
Statements of Business Enterprises.


                                                                                   19
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Financial Statements, Financial Reporting, and
Recognition
5.    Financial statements are a central feature of financial reporting—a principal
means of communicating financial information to those outside an entity. In
external general purpose financial reporting, a financial statement is a formal
tabulation of names and amounts of money derived from accounting records that
displays either financial position of an entity at a moment in time or one or more
kinds of changes in financial position of the entity during a period of time. Items
that are recognized in financial statements are financial representations of certain
resources (assets) of an entity, claims to those resources (liabilities and owners’
equity), and the effects of transactions and other events and circumstances that
result in changes in those resources and claims. The financial statements of an
entity are a fundamentally related set that articulate with each other and derive
from the same underlying data.1
6.     Recognition is the process of formally recording or incorporating an item into
the financial statements of an entity as an asset, liability, revenue, expense, or the
like. Recognition includes depiction of an item in both words and numbers, with the
amount included in the totals of the financial statements. For an asset or liability,
recognition involves recording not only acquisition or incurrence of the item but
also later changes in it, including changes that result in removal from the financial
statements.2
7.    Although financial statements have essentially the same objectives as
financial reporting, some useful information is better provided by financial
statements and some is better provided, or can only be provided, by notes to
financial statements or by supplementary information or other means of financial
reporting:3
     a.   Information disclosed in notes or parenthetically on the face of financial
          statements, such as significant accounting policies or alternative

1
 FASB Concepts Statement No. 1, Objectives of Financial Reporting by Business
Enterprises, pars. 6 and 18; Concepts Statement 3, pars. 6 and 14 and 15. Financial position
and changes in financial position are used here in a broad sense and do not refer to specific
financial statements. “Used broadly, financial position refers to state or status of assets or
claims to assets at moments in time, and changes in financial position refers to flows or
changes in assets or claims to assets over time” (Concepts Statement 3, par. 14, footnote
6). “Through the financial accounting process, the myriad and complex effects of the
economic activities of an enterprise are accumulated, analyzed, quantified, classified,
recorded, summarized, and reported as information of two basic types: (1) financial position,
which relates to a point in time, and (2) changes in financial position, which relate to a period
of time” (APB Statement No. 4, Basic Concepts and Accounting Principles Underlying
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, par. 10).
2
 Concepts Statement 3, pars. 83, 6, 25, 26, and 34 and 35.
3
 Concepts Statement 1, par. 5.



20
          measures for assets or liabilities, amplifies or explains information
          recognized in the financial statements.4 That sort of information is
          essential to understanding the information recognized in financial
          statements and has long been viewed as an integral part of financial
          statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
          principles.
     b.   Supplementary information, such as disclosures of the effects of
          changing prices, and other means of financial reporting, such as
          management discussion and analysis, add information to that in the
          financial statements or notes, including information that may be relevant
          but that does not meet all recognition criteria.5
8.    The scope of this concepts Statement is limited to recognition (and
measurement) in financial statements. That limitation on scope does not alter the
status of notes, supplementary information, or other means of financial reporting;
those types of information remain important and useful for the reasons discussed
in the preceding paragraph. To clarify the scope of this concepts Statement, the
diagram on page 32 illustrates the types of information used in investment, credit,
and similar decisions. Since recognition means depiction of an item in both words
and numbers, with the amount included in the totals of the financial statements,
disclosure by other means is not recognition.
9.    Disclosure of information about the items in financial statements and their
measures that may be provided by notes or parenthetically on the face of financial
statements, by supplementary information, or by other means of financial reporting
is not a substitute for recognition in financial statements for items that meet
recognition criteria. Generally, the most useful information about assets, liabilities,
revenues, expenses, and other items of financial statements and their measures
(that with the best combination of relevance and reliability) should be recognized
in the financial statements.




4
 For example, notes provide essential descriptive information for long-term obligations,
including when amounts are due, what interest they bear, and whether important restrictions
are imposed by related covenants. For inventory, the notes provide information on the
measurement method used—FIFO cost, LIFO cost, current market value, etc. For an
estimated litigation liability, an extended discussion of the circumstances, counsel’s opinions,
and the basis for management’s judgment may all be provided in the notes. For sales, useful
information about revenue recognition policies may appear only in the notes (FASB
Statement No. 47, Disclosure of Long-Term Obligations; ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory
Pricing,” statement 8; FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, par. 10; and
APB Statement 4, par. 199).
5
 Concepts Statement 1, pars. 6, 7, and 22. Supplementary financial statements, complete or
partial, may be useful, especially to introduce and to gain experience with new kinds of
information. Criteria for including information in supplementary statements may have much
in common with recognition criteria for primary statements discussed here, but the criteria
discussed in this Statement apply specifically to primary financial statements.



                                                                                             21
Financial Statements and Objectives of Financial
Reporting
10. FASB Concepts Statement No. 1, Objectives of Financial Reporting by
Business Enterprises, describes the broad purposes of financial reporting,
including financial statements.6 Financial reporting should provide:

     Information that is useful to present and potential investors and creditors and
     other users in making rational investment, credit, and similar decisions
     (paragraphs 34–36)

     Information to help investors, creditors, and others assess the amounts,
     timing, and uncertainty of prospective net cash inflows to the related
     enterprise because their prospects for receiving cash from investments in,
     loans to, or other participation in the enterprise depend significantly on its cash
     flow prospects (paragraphs 37–39)



6
 Paragraphs 8–33 of Concepts Statement 1 give needed background. They describe factors
affecting the objectives of general purpose external financial reporting, such as
characteristics of the environment in the United States, characteristics and limitations of
information provided, potential users and their interests, and the nature of the objectives. For
example, “financial reporting is but one source of information needed by those who make
economic decisions about business enterprises” (par. 22).



22
    Information about the economic resources of an enterprise, the claims to
    those resources (obligations of the enterprise to transfer resources to other
    entities and owners’ equity), and the effects of transactions, events, and
    circumstances that change resources and claims to those resources
    (paragraph 40).

11. Concepts Statement 1 also gives guidance about the kinds of information
that financial reporting, including financial statements, should provide:
    Information about an enterprise’s economic resources, obligations, and
    owners’ equity (paragraph 41)

    Information about an enterprise’s performance provided by measures of
    earnings and comprehensive income7 and their components measured by
    accrual accounting (paragraphs 42–48)

    Information about how an enterprise obtains and spends cash, about its
    borrowing and repayment of borrowing, about its capital (equity) transactions,
    including cash dividends and other distributions of enterprise resources to
    owners, and about other factors that may affect an enterprise’s liquidity or
    solvency (paragraph 49)

    Information about how management of an enterprise has discharged its
    stewardship responsibility to owners (stockholders) for the use of enterprise
    resources entrusted to it (paragraphs 50–53).

12. A full, articulated set of several financial statements that provide those
various kinds of information about an entity’s financial position and changes in its
financial position is necessary to satisfy the broad purposes of financial reporting.

Full Set of Financial Statements
13. The amount and variety of information that financial reporting should provide
about an entity require several financial statements. A full set of financial
statements for a period should show:

    Financial position at the end of the period
    Earnings (net income)8 for the period
    Comprehensive income (total nonowner changes in equity)8 for the period
    Cash flows during the period
    Investments by and distributions to owners during the period.

7
 Concepts Statement 3 used the term comprehensive income for the concept that was called
earnings in Concepts Statement 1 and reserved the term earnings for possible use to
designate a component part of comprehensive income (par. 1, footnote 1). Earnings,
including its relationship to comprehensive income, is a major topic of this Statement.
8
 Pars. 33 and 40



                                                                                     23
Information about earnings, comprehensive income, cash flows, and transactions
with owners have in common that they are different kinds of information about the
effects of transactions and other events and circumstances that change assets and
liabilities during a period.
14. This Statement does not consider details of displaying those different kinds
of information and does not preclude the possibility that some entities might
choose to combine some of that information in a single statement. In present
practice, for example, a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of retained
earnings is sometimes appended to an income statement.

Purposes and Limitations of Financial Statements

General Purpose Financial Statements and Individual Users
15. General purpose financial statements, to which the objectives of financial
reporting apply, are directed toward the common interest of various potential users
in the ability of a business enterprise to generate favorable cash flows. 9 General
purpose financial statements are feasible only because groups of users of financial
information have generally similar needs. But “general purpose” does not mean
“all purpose,” and financial statements do not necessarily satisfy all users equally
well.
16. Each decision maker judges what accounting information is useful, and that
judgment is influenced by factors such as the decisions to be made, the methods
of decision making to be used, the information already possessed or obtainable
from other sources, and the decision maker’s capacity (alone or with professional
help) to process the information. Even users of financial statement information who
make generally similar kinds of decisions differ from each other in those matters.10

Usefulness of Financial Statements, Individually and
Collectively
17. Financial statements of an entity individually and collectively contribute to
meeting the objectives of financial reporting. Component parts of financial
statements also contribute to meeting the objectives.
18. Each financial statement provides a different kind of information, and, with
limited exceptions (paragraph 14), the various kinds of information cannot be
combined into a smaller number of statements without unduly complicating the
information. Moreover, the information each provides is used for various purposes,
and particular users may be especially interested in the information in one of the
statements. Paragraphs 26–57 of this Statement summarize how individual
financial statements provide the information listed in paragraph 13.
9
 Concepts Statement 1, par. 30.
10
  Concepts Statement 2, pars. 23–26 and 32–41. For example, information cannot be useful
to decision makers who cannot understand it, even though it may otherwise be relevant to a
decision and be reliable. Understandability of information is related to the characteristics of
the decision maker as well as to the characteristics of the information itself.



24
19. The following two sections first describe how classification and aggregation,
if done and used with care, enhance the decision usefulness of financial
statements and how financial statements complement each other.

Classification and Aggregation in Financial Statements
20. Classification in financial statements facilitates analysis by grouping items
with essentially similar characteristics and separating items with essentially
different characteristics. Analysis aimed at objectives such as predicting amounts,
timing, and uncertainty of future cash flows requires financial information
segregated into reasonably homogeneous groups. For example, components of
financial statements that consist of items that have similar characteristics in one or
more respects, such as continuity or recurrence, stability, risk, and reliability, are
likely to have more predictive value than if their characteristics are dissimilar.
21. Financial statements result from processing vast masses of data and involve
needs to simplify, to condense, and to aggregate.11 Real things and events that
affect a dynamic and complex business enterprise are represented in financial
statements by words and numbers, which are necessarily highly simplified symbols
of the real thing. Real transactions and other events are voluminous and are
interpreted, combined, and condensed to be reflected in financial statements.
Numerous items and components are aggregated into sums or totals. The resulting
financial statements convey information that would be obscured from most users
if great detail, such as descriptions of each transaction or event, were provided.
22. Although those simplifications, condensations, and aggregations are both
necessary and useful, the Board believes it is important to avoid focusing attention
almost exclusively on “the bottom line,” earnings per share, or other highly
simplified condensations. Summary data, such as the amounts of net assets,
comprehensive income, earnings, or earnings per share, may be useful as general
indicators of the amount of investment or overall past performance and are often
used in efforts to compare an entity with many other entities. But, in a complex
business enterprise, summary amounts include many heterogeneous things and
events. Components of a financial statement often reflect more homogeneous
classes of items than the whole statement. The individual items, subtotals, or other
parts of a financial statement may often be more useful than the aggregate to those
who make investment, credit, and similar decisions.

Complementary Nature of Financial Statements
23. Financial statements interrelate (articulate) because they reflect different
aspects of the same transactions or other events affecting an entity. 12 Although
11
  “. . . It is a very fundamental principle indeed that knowledge is always gained by the orderly
loss of information, that is, by condensing and abstracting and indexing the great buzzing
confusion of information that comes from the world around us into a form which we can
appreciate and comprehend” (Kenneth E. Boulding, Economics as a Science [New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1970], p. 2, emphasis added).
12
  Concepts Statement 3, pars. 14 and 15.



                                                                                             25
each presents information different from the others, none is likely to serve only a
single purpose or provide all the financial statement information that is useful for a
particular kind of assessment or decision. Significant tools of financial analysis,
such as rates of return and turnover ratios, depend on interrelationships between
financial statements and their components.

24.    Financial statements complement each other. For example:

      a.   Statements of financial position include information that is often used in
           assessing an entity’s liquidity and financial flexibility,13 but a statement of
           financial position provides only an incomplete picture of either liquidity or
           financial flexibility unless it is used in conjunction with at least a cash flow
           statement.
      b.   Statements of earnings and comprehensive income generally reflect a
           great deal about the profitability of an entity during a period, but that
           information can be interpreted most meaningfully or compared with that
           of the entity for other periods or that of other entities only if it is used in
           conjunction with a statement of financial position, for example, by
           computing rates of return on assets or equity.
      c.   Statements of cash flows commonly show a great deal about an entity’s
           current cash receipts and payments, but a cash flow statement provides
           an incomplete basis for assessing prospects for future cash flows
           because it cannot show interperiod relationships. Many current cash
           receipts, especially from operations, stem from activities of earlier
           periods, and many current cash payments are intended or expected to
           result in future, not current, cash receipts. Statements of earnings and
           comprehensive income, especially if used in conjunction with statements
           of financial position, usually provide a better basis for assessing future
           cash flow prospects of an entity than do cash flow statements alone.14
      d.   Statements of investments by and distributions to owners provide
           information about significant sources of increases and decreases in
           assets, liabilities, and equity, but that information is of little practical value
           unless used in conjunction with other financial statements, for example,
           by comparing distributions to owners with earnings and comprehensive
           income or by comparing investments by and distributions to owners with
           borrowings and repayments of debt.

Individual Financial Statements
25. This discussion summarizes how individual financial statements provide the
information listed in paragraph 13. It also introduces recognition considerations,
which are the subject of the sections following.


13
  Liquidity reflects an asset’s or liability’s nearness to cash. Financial flexibility is the ability
of an entity to take effective actions to alter amounts and timing of cash flows so it can
respond to unexpected needs and opportunities.
14
  Concepts Statement 1, pars. 42–46.



26
Statement of Financial Position
26. A statement of financial position provides information about an entity’s
assets, liabilities, and equity and their relationships to each other at a moment in
time. The statement delineates the entity’s resource structure—major classes and
amounts of assets—and its financing structure—major classes and amounts of
liabilities and equity.
27. A statement of financial position does not purport to show the value of a
business enterprise15 but, together with other financial statements and other
information, should provide information that is useful to those who desire to make
their own estimates of the enterprise’s value. As a result of limitations stemming
from uncertainty and cost-benefit considerations, not all assets and not all liabilities
are included in a statement of financial position, and some assets and liabilities
that are included are affected by events, such as price changes or accretion, that
are not recognized. Statements of financial position also commonly use different
attributes to measure different assets and liabilities.16
28. Uncertainty and related limitations of financial accounting put the burden of
estimating values of business enterprises and of investments in them on investors,
creditors, and others. Information about components of earnings and
comprehensive income often plays a significant part in that analysis. For example,
investors may use that information to help estimate “earning power,” or other
amounts that they perceive as representative of long-term earning ability of an
enterprise, as a significant step in comparing the market price of an equity security
with its “intrinsic value.” Those estimates and analyses are part of financial
analysis, not financial reporting,17 but financial accounting facilitates financial
analysis by, among other things, classifying financial statement information in
homogeneous groups.18
29. Important uses of information about an entity’s financial position include
helping users to assess factors such as the entity’s liquidity, financial flexibility,
profitability, and risk. Comparisons among entities and computations of rates of
return are enhanced to the extent that significant asset and liability groupings are
homogeneous in general characteristics and measurement.


15
  Ibid., par. 41.
16
  The different attributes are defined and their current use illustrated in paragraphs 66-70 of
this Statement.
17
  “. . . [A]ccrual accounting provides measures of earnings rather than evaluations of
management’s performance, estimates of ‘earning power,’ predictions of earnings,
assessments of risk, or confirmations or rejections of predictions or assessments. Investors,
creditors, and other users of the information do their own evaluating, estimating, predicting,
assessing, confirming, or rejecting. For example, procedures such as averaging or
normalizing reported earnings for several periods and ignoring or averaging out the financial
effects of ‘nonrepresentative’ transactions and events are commonly used in estimating
‘earning power.’ However, both the concept of ‘earning power’ and the techniques for
estimating it are part of financial analysis and are beyond the scope of financial reporting”
(Concepts Statement 1, par. 48).
18
  Pars. 20–22 of this Statement.



                                                                                            27
Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income
30. Statements of earnings and comprehensive income together reflect the
extent to which and the ways in which the equity of an entity increased or
decreased from all sources other than transactions with owners during a period.
Investors, creditors, managers, and others need information about the causes of
changes in an entity’s assets and liabilities—including results of its ongoing major
or central operations, results of its incidental or peripheral transactions, and effects
of other events and circumstances stemming from the environment that are often
partly or wholly beyond the control of the entity and its management.
31. Effects of an entity’s various activities, transactions, and events differ in
stability, risk, and predictability, indicating a need for information about various
components of earnings and comprehensive income. That need underlies the
distinctions between revenues and gains, between expenses and losses, between
various kinds of gains and losses, and between measures found in present
practice such as income from continuing operations and net income.19
32. Since the parts of a financial statement may be more useful to decision
makers than the whole (paragraphs 20–22), this Statement emphasizes
usefulness of components, interrelationships, and different perspectives as well as
usefulness, collectively and individually, of financial statements.

Earnings
33. The concept of earnings described in this Statement is similar to net income
in present practice. It includes almost all of what is in present net income for a
period, and a statement of earnings based on it will be much like a present income
statement. Present practice accepts a variety of terms for net income, and the
Board anticipates that net income, profit, net loss, and other equivalent terms will
continue to be used in financial statements as names for earnings. However,
earnings is not exactly the same as present net income, and this Statement uses
the term earnings in part to distinguish the concept described here from present
net income.




19
 Concepts Statement 3, pars. 61 and 151.



28
34. Earnings does not include the cumulative effect of certain accounting
adjustments of earlier periods that are recognized in the current period. 20 The
principal example that is included in present net income but excluded from
earnings is the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, but others
may be identified in the future. Earnings is a measure of performance for a period
and to the extent feasible excludes items that are extraneous to that period—items
that belong primarily to other periods.21 The following condensed statements show
the similarities and major existing difference between earnings and present net
income.

                                                                Present
                                                               Net Income            Earnings
     Revenues                                                         100                100
     Expenses                                                          80                 80
     Gain from unusual source                                          (3)                (3)
     Income from continuing operations                                 23                 23
     Loss on discontinued operations
          Income from operating discontinued segment           10               10
          Loss on disposal of discontinued segment             12       2       12         2
     Income before extraordinary items                                                    21
      and effect of a change in accounting principle                   21
        Extraordinary loss                                      6                          6
        Cumulative effect on prior years of a change
           in accounting principle                              2       8
     Earnings                                                                             15
     Net Income                                                        13



35. The Board expects the concept of earnings to be subject to the process of
gradual change or evolution that has characterized the development of net income.
Present practice has developed over a long time, and that evolution has resulted
in significant changes in what net income reflects, such as a shift toward what is
commonly called an “all-inclusive” income statement. Those changes have
resulted primarily from standard-setting bodies’ responses to several factors, such
as changes in the business and economic environment and perceptions about the
nature and limitations of financial statements, about the needs of users of financial
statements, and about the need to prevent or cure perceived abuse(s) in financial
reporting. Those factors sometimes may conflict or appear to conflict. For example,
an all-inclusive income statement is intended, among other things, to avoid
discretionary omissions of losses (or gains) from an income statement, thereby

20
  That is, the cumulative effect on equity at the beginning of the period for which an earnings
statement is provided, sometimes called a “catch-up adjustment.”
21
  Prior period adjustments as defined in FASB Statement No. 16, Prior Period Adjustments,
are not included in net income in present practice and are not, therefore, differences between
earnings in this Statement and present net income. Statement 16 narrowed considerably the
definition of prior period adjustments in APB Opinions No. 9, Reporting the Results of
Operations, and No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations—Reporting the Effects of
Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring
Events and Transactions. Some items that were prior period adjustments under those
Opinions are included in net income in present practice, and some argue that the existing
definition is too narrow because as a result net income includes items that belong to other
periods.



                                                                                                29
avoiding presentation of a more (or less) favorable report of performance or
stewardship than is justified. However, because income statements also are used
as a basis for estimating future performance and assessing future cash flow
prospects, arguments have been advanced urging exclusion of unusual or
nonrecurring gains and losses that might reduce the usefulness of an income
statement for any one year for predictive purposes.
36. Earnings is a measure of performance during a period that is concerned
primarily with the extent to which asset inflows associated with cash-to-cash
cycles22 substantially completed (or completed) during the period exceed (or are
less than) asset outflows associated, directly or indirectly, with the same cycles.
Both an entity’s ongoing major or central activities and its incidental or peripheral
transactions involve a number of overlapping cash-to-cash cycles of different
lengths. At any time, a significant proportion of those cycles is normally incomplete,
and prospects for their successful completion and amounts of related revenues,
expenses, gains, and losses vary in degree of uncertainty. Estimating those
uncertain results of incomplete cycles is costly and involves risks, but the benefits
of timely financial reporting based on sales or other more relevant events, rather
than on cash receipts or other less relevant events, outweigh those costs and risks.
37. Final results of incomplete cycles usually can be reliably measured at some
point of substantial completion (for example, at the time of sale, usually meaning
delivery) or sometimes earlier in the cycle (for example, as work proceeds on
certain long-term, construction-type contracts), so it is usually not necessary to
delay recognition until the point of full completion (for example, until after
receivables have been collected and warranty obligations have been satisfied).
Guidance for applying recognition criteria to components of earnings (paragraphs
78–87) helps define earnings by aiding in making those determinations.
38. Earnings focuses on what the entity has received or reasonably expects to
receive for its output (revenues) and what it sacrifices to produce and distribute
that output (expenses). Earnings also includes results of the entity’s incidental or
peripheral transactions and some effects of other events and circumstances
stemming from the environment (gains and losses).23

Comprehensive Income
39. Comprehensive income is a broad measure of the effects of transactions and
other events on an entity, comprising all recognized changes in equity (net assets)

22
  The patterns of cash-to-cash cycles vary by industry. “Descriptions of operations of
business enterprises commonly describe a cycle that begins with cash outlays and ends with
cash receipts. That description . . . generally fits manufacturing, merchandising, financial,
and service enterprises whose operations comprise primarily activities such as acquiring
goods and services, increasing their value by adding time, place, or form utility, selling them,
and collecting the selling price. Cash receipts may precede cash payments, however, and
commonly do in the operations of some service and financial enterprises” (Concepts
Statement 1, par. 39, footnote 8).
23
  Concepts Statement 3, paragraphs 50 and 63–73, defines revenues, expenses, gains, and
losses.



30
of the entity during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances
except those resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners.24
40. Just as a variety of terms are used for net income in present practice, the
Board anticipates that total nonowner changes in equity, comprehensive loss, and
other equivalent terms will be used in future financial statements as names for
comprehensive income.
41. Components of comprehensive income other than those that are included in
earnings present no recognition problems in addition to those involved in
recognizing assets and liabilities, for which fundamental criteria are described later
(paragraphs 58–77).

Relationships between Earnings and Comprehensive Income
42. Earnings and comprehensive income have the same broad components—
revenues, expenses, gains, and losses—but are not the same because certain
classes of gains and losses are included in comprehensive income but are
excluded from earnings.25 Those items fall into two classes that are illustrated by
certain present practices:

     a.   Effects of certain accounting adjustments of earlier periods that are
          recognized in the period, such as the principal example in present
          practice—cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles—which
          are included in present net income but are excluded from earnings as set
          forth in this Statement (paragraphs 33 and 34)
     b.   Certain other changes in net assets (principally certain holding gains and
          losses) that are recognized in the period, such as some changes in
          market values of investments in marketable equity securities classified as
          noncurrent assets, some changes in market values of investments in
          industries having specialized accounting practices for marketable
          securities, and foreign currency translation adjustments.26
Both classes and the items they comprise are subject to evolutionary change
(paragraph 35).


24
  Ibid., pars. 50, 56–62, and 147–152.
25
  That possibility was noted in Concepts Statement 3: “. . . the reason for using
comprehensive income rather than earnings in this Statement is that the Board has decided
to reserve earnings for possible use to designate a different concept that is a component part
of—that is, is narrower than or less than—comprehensive income. . . .“ (par. 58, footnote
reference omitted).
26
  FASB Statements No. 12, Accounting for Certain Marketable Securities; No. 60, Accounting
and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises; and No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation. Changes
in market values of marketable securities are included in earnings by some other entities
having specialized accounting practices for marketable securities (for example, securities
brokers and dealers and investment companies) and for some classes of marketable
securities (for example, securities held in trading accounts of banks and futures contracts
that are considered speculative [FASB Statement No. 80, Accounting for Futures Contracts]).



                                                                                           31
43. Differences between earnings and comprehensive income require some
distinguishing terms. The items in both classes described in paragraph 42 are
gains and losses under the definitions in Concepts Statement 3 (paragraphs 67–
73), but to refer to some gains and losses that are included in earnings and other
gains and losses that are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from
earnings is not only clumsy but also likely to be confusing. This Statement
therefore uses gains and losses for those included in earnings and uses
cumulative accounting adjustments and other nonowner changes in equity for
those excluded from earnings but included in comprehensive income.
44. The relationships between earnings and comprehensive income described
in the foregoing paragraphs mean that statements of earnings and comprehensive
income complement each other something like this:27

     +     Revenues            100          +      Earnings                        15
     –     Expenses             80          –      Cumulative accounting
                                                     adjustments                     2
     +     Gains                 3
                                            +      Other nonowner
     –     Losses                8                  changes in equity                1

     =     Earnings             15          =      Comprehensive income            14




Financial Capital Maintenance
45. The full set of articulated financial statements discussed in this Statement is
based on the concept of financial capital maintenance.
46. An enterprise receives a return only after its capital has been maintained or
recovered. The concept of capital maintenance, therefore, is critical in
distinguishing an enterprise’s return on investment from return of its investment.
Both investors and the enterprises in which they acquire an interest invest financial
resources with the expectation that the investment will generate more financial
resources than they invested.
47. A return on financial capital results only if the financial (money) amount of an
enterprise’s net assets at the end of a period exceeds the financial amount of net
assets at the beginning of the period after excluding the effects of transactions with
owners. The financial capital concept is the traditional view and is the capital
maintenance concept in present financial statements.28 In contrast, a return on
physical capital results only if the physical productive capacity of the enterprise at
the end of the period (or the resources needed to achieve that capacity) exceeds

27
  Earnings and its components are the same as in the example in paragraph 34. Both
cumulative accounting adjustments and other nonowner changes in equity may be either
additions to or deductions from earnings. The signs used in the example are for illustration
only.
28
  Concepts Statement 3, par. 58. “Comprehensive income as defined in paragraph 56 is a
return on financial capital” (Ibid.).



32
the physical productive capacity at the beginning of the period, also after excluding
the effects of transactions with owners. The physical capital maintenance concept
can be implemented only if inventories and property, plant, and equipment (and
perhaps other assets) are measured by their current costs, while the financial
capital maintenance concept does not require measurement by a particular
attribute.
48. The principal difference between the two capital maintenance concepts
involves the effects of price changes during a period on assets while held and
liabilities while owed. Under the financial capital concept, if the effects of those
price changes are recognized, they are conceptually holding gains and losses
(though they are commonly reported under other names)29 and are included in the
return on capital. Under the physical capital concept, those changes would be
recognized but conceptually would be capital maintenance adjustments that would
be included directly in equity and not included in return on capital. Both earnings
and comprehensive income as set forth in this Statement, like present net income,
include holding gains and losses that would be excluded from income under a
physical capital maintenance concept.

Recognition Implications of Earnings
49. Although recognition involves considerations of relevance and comparability,
recognition criteria, conventions, and rules are primarily intended to increase
reliability—they are means of coping with the uncertainty that surrounds business
and economic activities. Uncertainty in business and economic affairs is a
continuum, ranging from mere lack of absolute sureness to a degree of vagueness
that precludes anything other than guesswork. Since uncertainty surrounds an
entity’s incomplete cash-to-cash cycles in varying degrees, measuring progress
reliably involves determining whether uncertainty about future cash flows has been
reduced to an acceptable level.
50. In response to uncertainty, there has been a general tendency to emphasize
purchase and sale transactions and to apply conservative procedures in
accounting recognition. Perceptions about characteristics such as realizability and
volatility may also help to explain why some events are recognized in present
practice while others are not. For example, revenues are sometimes recognized
before sale if readily realizable (if sale is a more-or-less effortless or perfunctory
activity, and uncertainty about amounts involved is reduced to an acceptable level
by quoted prices for interchangeable units in active markets or other reliable
measures).30 Those characteristics may also help to explain certain special
recognition rules. For example, so-called translation adjustments from translating
foreign currency financial statements are excluded from net income but are
reported separately in comprehensive income (paragraphs 39 and 42) because
they are considered not only unrealized but also unrealizable short of sale or
liquidation of the investment in the entity. Effects of exchange rate changes on the

29
  For example, under the FIFO method in present practice, gains from price increases on
inventory while held reduce cost of goods sold.
30
  ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, par. 16; FASB Statement 12, pars. 14–16, 27, and 28.



                                                                                    33
net investment are considered too uncertain and remote to be included in operating
results.31 Similarly, a reason commonly given for the same treatment for certain
changes in market values of investments in marketable equity securities is that
they may be temporary, and temporary fluctuations in market values of long-term
investments should not be included in net income.32
51. Since earnings in this Statement is similar to net income for a period in
present practice, criteria and guidance given in the Statement for recognizing
components of earnings (paragraphs 58–87) are generally similar to revenue and
expense recognition criteria or rules in present practice. Future standards may
change what is recognized as components of earnings (paragraph 35). Moreover,
because of the differences between earnings and comprehensive income, future
standards also may recognize certain changes in net assets as components of
comprehensive income but not as components of earnings.33

Statement of Cash Flows
52. A statement of cash flows directly or indirectly reflects an entity’s cash
receipts classified by major sources and its cash payments classified by major
uses during a period. It provides useful information about an entity’s activities in
generating cash through operations to repay debt, distribute dividends, or reinvest
to maintain or expand operating capacity; about its financing activities, both debt
and equity; and about its investing or spending of cash. Important uses of
information about an entity’s current cash receipts and payments include helping
to assess factors such as the entity’s liquidity, financial flexibility, profitability, and
risk.
53. Since neither earnings nor comprehensive income measured by accrual
accounting is the same as cash flow from operations, cash flow statements provide
significant information about amounts, causes, and intervals of time between
earnings and comprehensive income and cash receipts and outlays. Users
commonly consider that information in assessing the relationship between
earnings or comprehensive income and associated cash flows.
54. Statements of cash flows present few recognition problems because all cash
receipts and payments are recognized when they occur. Reporting cash flows
involves no estimates or allocations and few judgments except regarding
classification in cash flow statements.34




31
  Statement 52, pars. 111–113.
32
  Statement 12, pars. 21, 29, and 30.
33
  A possibility that has been suggested is the “inventory profits” that would result if cost of
goods sold were reported on LIFO while inventories were reported on FIFO.
34
  Determinations about the particular items to be reported within cash flow statements and
the form of those statements are matters that may be developed further in Statements of
Financial Accounting Standards or in practice.



34
Statement of Investments by and Distributions to Owners
55. A statement of investments by and distributions to owners reflects the extent
to which and in what ways the equity of an entity increased or decreased from
transactions with owners as owners35 during a period. That is, it reflects the capital
transactions36 of the entity, in contrast to its income transactions—those with
nonowners—which are reflected in statements of earnings and comprehensive
income. Statements of comprehensive income and statements of transactions with
owners together include all changes in equity (net assets) recognized during a
period.
56. Investments by owners establish or increase ownership interests in the entity
and may be received in the form of cash, goods or services, or satisfaction or
conversion of the entity’s liabilities. Distributions decrease ownership interests and
include not only cash dividends when declared (or other cash withdrawals by
owners of noncorporate entities) but also transactions such as reacquisitions of
the entity’s equity securities and distributions “in kind” of noncash assets.
Information about those events is useful, in conjunction with other financial
statement information, to investors, creditors, and other users as an aid in
assessing factors such as the entity’s financial flexibility, profitability, and risk.
57. Transactions with owners are now normally recognized when they occur.
Recognition problems concerning them can be difficult; for example, problems
sometimes arise in distinguishing transactions with owners from transactions with
certain creditors, and investments and dividends in kind may present
measurement problems.37 However, the recognition implications of earnings that
lead to special guidance do not apply to transactions with owners, and that sort of
special guidance is not needed for them.


RECOGNITION CRITERIA

58. As noted in paragraphs 6–9, recognition is the process of formally recording
or incorporating an item into the financial statements of an entity as an asset,
liability, revenue, expense, or the like. A recognized item is depicted in both words

35
  Rather than as its employees, suppliers, customers, lenders, or the like (Concepts
Statement 3, par. 44); that Statement defines investments by and distributions to owners in
paragraphs 52–55.
36
  Capital transactions are transactions with owners that affect ownership interests (equity) in
an entity:
           Although capital is not a precise term in referring to ownership interests
     because it is also applied to assets and liabilities in various ways, it is used in this
     discussion because capital is part of so many terms commonly used to describe
     aspects of ownership interests; for example, investments by owners are commonly
     called capital contributions, distributions to owners are commonly called capital
     distributions, and discussions of comprehensive income and its components often
     refer to capital maintenance. [Concepts Statement 3, par. 144]
37
  Concepts Statement 3, par. 49, and APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary
Transactions.



                                                                                            35
and numbers, with the amount included in the statement totals. Recognition
comprehends both initial recognition of an item and recognition of subsequent
changes in or removal of a previously recognized item.

Purposes of Criteria
59. Criteria are set forth in this Statement to provide direction for resolving issues
that involve accounting recognition. An entity’s assets and liabilities and the effects
of events on them and on its equity are candidates for recognition in its financial
statements.
60. Some events that affect assets, liabilities, or equity are not recognized in
financial statements at the time they occur. Some events that result in future
benefits, for example, creation of product awareness by advertising and promotion,
may perhaps never be recognized as separate assets. Other events, for example,
a disaster loss of unknown dimension, are recognized only when sufficient
information about the effects of the event has become available at a justifiable cost
to reduce uncertainty to an acceptable level. Recognition criteria aid in making
those determinations.

Structure of Recognition Criteria
61. The recognition criteria in this Statement are derived from the qualitative
characteristics of financial information in Concepts Statement 2 and are helpful in
making the definitions of elements of financial statements in Concepts Statement
3 operational in resolving financial reporting issues.
62. The fundamental criteria apply to all recognition decisions. Further guidance
is provided in paragraphs 78–87 for applying the fundamental criteria to
components of earnings.

Fundamental Recognition Criteria
63. An item and information about it should meet four fundamental recognition
criteria to be recognized and should be recognized when the criteria are met,
subject to a cost-benefit constraint and a materiality threshold. Those criteria are:

     Definitions–The item meets the definition of an element of financial
     statements.
     Measurability–It has a relevant attribute measurable with sufficient reliability.
     Relevance–The information about it is capable of making a difference in user
     decisions.
     Reliability–The information is representationally faithful, verifiable, and
     neutral.




36
All four criteria are subject to a pervasive cost-benefit constraint: the expected
benefits from recognizing a particular item should justify perceived costs of
providing and using the information.38 Recognition is also subject to a materiality
threshold: an item and information about it need not be recognized in a set of
financial statements if the item is not large enough to be material and the aggregate
of individually immaterial items is not large enough to be material to those
financial statements.39

Definitions
64. The definitions are those in FASB Concepts Statement No. 3, Elements of
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises.40 To be recognized in financial
statements, a resource must meet the definition of an asset, and an obligation
must meet the definition of a liability. A change in equity must meet the definition
of a revenue, expense, gain, or loss to be recognized as a component of
comprehensive income. 41

Measurability
65. The asset, liability, or change in equity must have a relevant attribute 42 that
can be quantified in monetary units with sufficient reliability. Measurability must be
considered together with both relevance and reliability.

Measurement Attributes
66. Items currently reported in financial statements are measured by different
attributes, depending on the nature of the item and the relevance and reliability of
the attribute measured. The Board expects the use of different attributes to
continue.
67.   Five different attributes of assets (and liabilities) are used in present practice:

38
  Concepts Statement 2, pars. 32 and 33 and 133–144.
39
  “Individual judgments are required to assess materiality. . . . The essence of the materiality
concept is clear. The omission or misstatement of an item in a financial report is material if,
in the light of surrounding circumstances, the magnitude of the item is such that it is probable
that the judgment of a reasonable person relying upon the report would have been changed
or influenced by the inclusion or correction of the item” (Concepts Statement 2, par. 132).
40
  Concepts Statement 3 does not define elements of cash flow statements but notes classes
of items that may be called elements of financial statements, for example, cash provided by
operations, cash provided by borrowing, cash provided by issuing equity securities, and so
forth (par. 4). However, all items in cash flow statements involve cash receipts or payments,
which for recognition purposes are covered by the definitions in that Statement.
41
  As already noted (pars. 42 and 43), the items called cumulative accounting adjustments
and other nonowner changes in equity are gains and losses under the definitions in Concepts
Statement 3.
42
  Attribute “refers to the traits or aspects of an element to be quantified or measured, such
as historical cost/historical proceeds, current cost/current proceeds, etc. Attribute is a
narrower concept than measurement, which includes not only identifying the attribute to be
measured but also selecting a scale of measurement (for example, units of money or units
of constant purchasing power)” (Concepts Statement 1, par. 2, footnote 2).



                                                                                             37
     a.   Historical cost (historical proceeds). Property, plant, and equipment and
          most inventories are reported at their historical cost, which is the amount
          of cash, or its equivalent, paid to acquire an asset, commonly adjusted
          after acquisition for amortization or other allocations. Liabilities that
          involve obligations to provide goods or services to customers are
          generally reported at historical proceeds, which is the amount of cash, or
          its equivalent, received when the obligation was incurred and may be
          adjusted after acquisition for amortization or other allocations.
     b.   Current cost. Some inventories are reported at their current
          (replacement) cost, which is the amount of cash, or its equivalent, that
          would have to be paid if the same or an equivalent asset were acquired
          currently.
     c.   Current market value. Some investments in marketable securities are
          reported at their current market value, which is the amount of cash, or its
          equivalent, that could be obtained by selling an asset in orderly
          liquidation. Current market value is also generally used for assets
          expected to be sold at prices lower than previous carrying amounts.
          Some liabilities that involve marketable commodities and securities, for
          example, the obligations of writers of options or sellers of common shares
          who do not own the underlying commodities or securities, are reported at
          current market value.
     d.   Net realizable (settlement) value. Short-term receivables and some
          inventories are reported at their net realizable value, which is the
          nondiscounted amount of cash, or its equivalent, into which an asset is
          expected to be converted in due course of business less direct costs, if
          any, necessary to make that conversion. Liabilities that involve known or
          estimated amounts of money payable at unknown future dates, for
          example, trade payables or warranty obligations, generally are reported
          at their net settlement value, which is the nondiscounted amounts of cash,
          or its equivalent, expected to be paid to liquidate an obligation in the due
          course of business, including direct costs, if any, necessary to make that
          payment.
     e.   Present (or discounted) value of future cash flows. Long-term receivables
          are reported at their present value (discounted at the implicit or historical
          rate), which is the present or discounted value of future cash inflows into
          which an asset is expected to be converted in due course of business
          less present values of cash outflows necessary to obtain those inflows.
          Long-term payables are similarly reported at their present value
          (discounted at the implicit or historical rate), which is the present or
          discounted value of future cash outflows expected to be required to
          satisfy the liability in due course of business.
68. The different attributes often have the same amounts, particularly at initial
recognition. As a result, there may be agreement about the appropriate amount for
an item but disagreement about the attribute being used. Present financial
statements frequently are characterized as being based on the historical cost
(historical proceeds) attribute. That no doubt reflects the fact that, for most
enterprises, a great many of the individual events recognized in financial


38
statements are acquisitions of goods or services for cash or equivalent that are
recorded at historical cost. Although the “historical cost system” description may
be convenient and describes well present practice for some major classes of
assets (most inventories, property, plant, and equipment, and intangibles), it
describes less well present practice for a number of other classes of assets and
liabilities—for example, trade receivables, notes payable, and warranty
obligations.
69. “Historical exchange price” is more descriptive of the quantity most generally
reflected in financial statements in present practice (and “transaction-based
system” would be a better description of the present accounting model than
“historical cost system”). Amounts initially recorded for trade receivables and long-
term notes payable, for example, generally fit the historical exchange price
description. But some assets are acquired, and some liabilities are incurred,
without exchanges—for example, assets found or received as contributions and
income tax or litigation liabilities. There is no historical exchange price in those
situations, and some other attribute must be used. Moreover, carrying amounts of
assets (liabilities) are frequently reduced (increased) from historical exchange
price to a lower (higher) current cost, current market value, or net realizable value,
even though no subsequent exchange of the assets held or liabilities owed has
occurred. And some assets are carried at current market value, independent of
historical exchange price.
70. Rather than attempt to characterize present practice as being based on a
single attribute with numerous major exceptions for diverse reasons, this concepts
Statement characterizes present practice as based on different attributes. Rather
than attempt to select a single attribute and force changes in practice so that all
classes of assets and liabilities use that attribute, this concepts Statement
suggests that use of different attributes will continue, and discusses how the Board
may select the appropriate attribute in particular cases.43

Monetary Unit or Measurement Scale
71. The monetary unit or measurement scale in financial statements in current
practice is nominal units of money, that is, unadjusted for changes in purchasing
power of money over time. An ideal measurement scale would be one that is stable
over time. At low rates of change in general purchasing power (inflation or
deflation), nominal units of money are relatively stable. Also, preparation and use
of financial statements is simpler with nominal units than with other units of
measure, such as units of constant general purchasing power (used, for example,
in supplementary disclosures of the effects of changing prices), 44 artificial
monetary units (for example, the European Currency Unit or ECU), or units of a
commodity (for example, ounces of gold). However, as rates of change in general


43
  This discussion of measurement attributes is based in part on the FASB Discussion
Memorandum, Conceptual Framework for Financial Accounting and Reporting: Elements of
Financial Statements and Their Measurement (December 2, 1976), paragraphs 388–574,
which further describes and illustrates each of the attributes and remains a useful reference.
44
  FASB Statement No. 33, Financial Reporting and Changing Prices, as amended.



                                                                                           39
purchasing power increase, financial statements expressed in nominal units of
money become progressively less useful and less comparable.
72. The Board expects that nominal units of money will continue to be used to
measure items recognized in financial statements. However, a change from
present circumstances (for example, an increase in inflation to a level at which
distortions became intolerable) might lead the Board to select another, more stable
measurement scale.

Relevance
73. Relevance is a primary qualitative characteristic. To be relevant, information
about an item must have feedback value or predictive value (or both) for users and
must be timely.45 Information is relevant if it has the capacity to make a difference
in investors’, creditors’, or other users’ decisions. To be recognized, the information
conveyed by including an asset, liability, or change therein in the financial
statements must be relevant.
74. The relevance of particular information about an item being considered for
recognition cannot be determined in isolation. Relevance should be evaluated in
the context of the principal objective of financial reporting: providing information
that is useful in making rational investment, credit, and similar decisions. 46
Relevance should also be evaluated in the context of the full set of financial
statements—with consideration of how recognition of a particular item contributes
to the aggregate decision usefulness.

Reliability
75. Reliability is the other primary qualitative characteristic. To be reliable,
information about an item must be representationally faithful, verifiable, and
neutral.47 To be reliable, information must be sufficiently faithful in its
representation of the underlying resource, obligation, or effect of events and
sufficiently free of error and bias to be useful to investors, creditors, and others in
making decisions. To be recognized, information about the existence and amount
of an asset, liability, or change therein must be reliable.
76. Reliability may affect the timing of recognition. The first available information
about an event that may have resulted in an asset, liability, or change therein is
sometimes too uncertain to be recognized: it may not yet be clear whether the
effects of the event meet one or more of the definitions or whether they are
measurable, and the cost of resolving those uncertainties may be excessive.
Information about some items that meet a definition may never become sufficiently
reliable at a justifiable cost to recognize the item. For other items, those
uncertainties are reduced as time passes, and reliability is increased as additional
information becomes available.



45
 Concepts Statement 2, pars. 46–57.
46
 Concepts Statement 1, pars. 34–40.
47
 Concepts Statement 2, pars. 58–110.



40
77. Unavailability or unreliability of information may delay recognition of an item,
but waiting for virtually complete reliability or minimum cost may make the
information so untimely that it loses its relevance. At some intermediate point,
uncertainty may be reduced at a justifiable cost to a level tolerable in view of the
perceived relevance of the information. If other criteria are also met, that is the
appropriate point for recognition. Thus, recognition may sometimes involve a
trade-off between relevance and reliability.

GUIDANCE IN APPLYING CRITERIA TO COMPONENTS
OF EARNINGS
78. This section discusses the need for and provides further guidance in applying
the fundamental criteria in recognizing components of earnings. Changes in net
assets are recognized as components of earnings if they qualify under the
guidance in paragraphs 83–87. Certain changes in net assets (discussed in
paragraphs 42–44 and 49–51) that meet the four fundamental recognition criteria
just described may qualify for recognition in comprehensive income even though
they do not qualify for recognition as components of earnings based on that
guidance.
79. Further guidance in applying the recognition criteria to components of
earnings is necessary because of the widely acknowledged importance of
information about earnings and its components as a primary measure of
performance for a period. The performance measured is that of the entity, not
necessarily that of its management, and includes the recognized effects upon the
entity of events and circumstances both within and beyond the control of the entity
and its management.48 The widely acknowledged importance of earnings
information leads to guidance intended in part to provide more stringent
requirements for recognizing components of earnings than for recognizing other
changes in assets or liabilities.
80. As noted in paragraph 36, earnings measures the extent to which asset
inflows (revenues and gains) associated with substantially completed cash-to-cash
cycles exceed asset outflows (expenses and losses) associated, directly or
indirectly, with the same cycles. Guidance for recognizing components of earnings
is concerned with identifying which cycles are substantially complete and with
associating particular revenues, gains, expenses, and losses with those cycles.
81. In assessing the prospect that as yet uncompleted transactions will be
concluded successfully, a degree of skepticism is often warranted.49 Moreover, as
a reaction to uncertainty, more stringent requirements historically have been
imposed for recognizing revenues and gains than for recognizing expenses and


48
  “What happens to a business enterprise is usually so much a joint result of a complex
interaction of many factors that neither accounting nor other statistical analysis can discern
with reasonable accuracy the degree to which management, or any other factor, affected the
joint result” (Concepts Statement 1, par. 53).
49
  Concepts Statement 2, par. 97.



                                                                                           41
losses, and those conservative reactions influence the guidance for applying the
recognition criteria to components of earnings.
82. The guidance stated here is intended to summarize key considerations in a
form useful for guidance for future standard setting—guidance which also is
consistent with the vast bulk of current practice. The following paragraphs provide
guidance separately for recognition of revenues and gains and for expenses and
losses as components of earnings.

Revenues and Gains
83. Further guidance for recognition of revenues and gains is intended to provide
an acceptable level of assurance of the existence and amounts of revenues and
gains before they are recognized. Revenues and gains of an enterprise during a
period are generally measured by the exchange values of the assets (goods or
services) or liabilities involved, and recognition involves consideration of two
factors, (a) being realized or realizable and (b) being earned, with sometimes one
and sometimes the other being the more important consideration.

     a.   Realized or realizable. Revenues and gains generally are not recognized
          until realized or realizable.50 Revenues and gains are realized when
          products (goods or services), merchandise, or other assets are
          exchanged for cash or claims to cash. Revenues and gains are realizable
          when related assets received or held are readily convertible to known
          amounts of cash or claims to cash. Readily convertible assets have (i)
          interchangeable (fungible) units and (ii) quoted prices available in an
          active market that can rapidly absorb the quantity held by the entity
          without significantly affecting the price.
     b.   Earned. Revenues are not recognized until earned. An entity’s revenue-
          earning activities involve delivering or producing goods, rendering
          services, or other activities that constitute its ongoing major or central
          operations,51 and revenues are considered to have been earned when
          the entity has substantially accomplished what it must do to be entitled to
          the benefits represented by the revenues. Gains commonly result from
50
  The terms realized and realizable are used in the Board’s conceptual framework in precise
senses, focusing on conversion or convertibility of noncash assets into cash or claims to cash
(Concepts Statement 3, par. 83). Realized has sometimes been used in a different, broader
sense: for example, some have used that term to include realizable or to include certain
conversions of noncash assets into other assets that are also not cash or claims to cash.
APB Statement 4, paragraphs 148–153, used the term realization even more broadly as a
synonym for recognition.
51
  “Most types of revenue are the joint result of many profit-directed activities of an enterprise
and revenue is often described as being ‘earned’ gradually and continuously by the whole of
enterprise activities. Earning in this sense is a technical term that refers to the activities that
give rise to the revenue—purchasing, manufacturing, selling, rendering service, delivering
goods, allowing other entities to use enterprise assets, the occurrence of an event specified
in a contract, and so forth. All of the profit-directed activities of an enterprise that comprise
the process by which revenue is earned may be called the earning process” (APB Statement
4, par. 149). Concepts Statement 3, paragraph 64, footnote 31, contains the same concept.



42
           transactions and other events that involve no “earning process,” and for
           recognizing gains, being earned is generally less significant than being
           realized or realizable.
84.    In recognizing revenues and gains:

      a.   The two conditions (being realized or realizable and being earned) are
           usually met by the time product or merchandise is delivered or services
           are rendered to customers, and revenues from manufacturing and selling
           activities and gains and losses from sales of other assets are commonly
           recognized at time of sale (usually meaning delivery).52
      b.   If sale or cash receipt (or both) precedes production and delivery (for
           example, magazine subscriptions), revenues may be recognized as
           earned by production and delivery.
      c.   If product is contracted for before production, revenues may be
           recognized by a percentage-of-completion method as earned—as
           production takes place—provided reasonable estimates of results at
           completion and reliable measures of progress are available.53
      d.   If services are rendered or rights to use assets extend continuously over
           time (for example, interest or rent), reliable measures based on
           contractual prices established in advance are commonly available, and
           revenues may be recognized as earned as time passes.
      e.   If products or other assets are readily realizable because they are salable
           at reliably determinable prices without significant effort (for example,
           certain agricultural products, precious metals, and marketable securities),
           revenues and some gains or losses may be recognized at completion of
           production or when prices of the assets change. Paragraph 83(a)
           describes readily realizable (convertible) assets.
      f.   If product, services, or other assets are exchanged for nonmonetary
           assets that are not readily convertible into cash, revenues or gains or
           losses may be recognized on the basis that they have been earned and
           the transaction is completed. Gains or losses may also be recognized if
           nonmonetary assets are received or distributed in nonreciprocal
           transactions. Recognition in both kinds of transactions depends on the
           provision that the fair values involved can be determined within
           reasonable limits.54
      g.   If collectibility of assets received for product, services, or other assets is
           doubtful, revenues and gains may be recognized on the basis of cash
           received.


52
  The requirement that revenue be earned before it is recorded “usually causes no problems
because the earning process is usually complete or nearly complete by the time of [sale]”
(APB Statement 4, par. 153).
53
  If production is long in relation to reporting periods, such as for long-term, construction-type
contracts, recognizing revenues as earned has often been deemed to result in information
that is significantly more relevant and representationally faithful than information based on
waiting for delivery, although at the sacrifice of some verifiability. (Concepts Statement 2,
paragraphs 42–45, describes trade-offs of that kind.)
54
  APB Opinion 29.



                                                                                              43
Expenses and Losses
85. Further guidance for recognition of expenses and losses is intended to
recognize consumption (using up) of economic benefits or occurrence or discovery
of loss of future economic benefits during a period. Expenses and losses are
generally recognized when an entity’s economic benefits are used up in delivering
or producing goods, rendering services, or other activities that constitute its
ongoing major or central operations or when previously recognized assets are
expected to provide reduced or no further benefits.

Consumption of Benefits
86. Consumption of economic benefits during a period may be recognized either
directly or by relating it to revenues recognized during the period:55

     a.   Some expenses, such as cost of goods sold, are matched with
          revenues—they are recognized upon recognition of revenues that result
          directly and jointly from the same transactions or other events as the
          expenses.
     b.   Many expenses, such as selling and administrative salaries, are
          recognized during the period in which cash is spent or liabilities are
          incurred for goods and services that are used up either simultaneously
          with acquisition or soon after.
     c.   Some expenses, such as depreciation and insurance, are allocated by
          systematic and rational procedures to the periods during which the
          related assets are expected to provide benefits.

Loss or Lack of Future Benefit
87. An expense or loss is recognized if it becomes evident that previously
recognized future economic benefits of an asset have been reduced or eliminated,
or that a liability has been incurred or increased, without associated economic
benefits.

RECOGNITION OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES
88. Initial recognition of assets acquired and liabilities incurred generally involves
measurement based on current exchange prices at the date of recognition. Once
an asset or a liability is recognized, it continues to be measured at the amount
initially recognized until an event that changes the asset or liability or its amount
occurs and meets the recognition criteria.
89. Events that change assets and liabilities are of two types: (a) inflows
(acquisitions of assets or incurrences of liabilities) and outflows (sale or other
disposal or loss of assets and settlement or cancellation of liabilities) and (b)

55
 Concepts Statement 3, pars. 84–89.



44
changes of amounts of assets while held or of liabilities while owed by the entity.
The latter also are of two types: (i) changes in utility or substance and (ii) changes
in price. Examples of changes in utility or substance that are recognized in current
practice include use of assets in production, depreciation of assets used in
administrative activities, and fire damage to assets.
90. Information based on current prices should be recognized if it is sufficiently
relevant and reliable to justify the costs involved and more relevant than alternative
information. The merits of recognizing changes in prices may be clear in certain
cases, and, as already noted, some price changes are recognized in present
practice. In other cases, the relative merits of information based on current prices
and alternative information may be unclear or may be a matter of dispute. In
considering the application of the fundamental recognition criteria, those relative
merits must be evaluated in the light of the circumstances of each case.

SUMMARY
91. Most aspects of current practice are consistent with the recognition criteria
and guidance in this Statement, but the criteria and guidance do not foreclose the
possibility of future changes in practice. This Statement is intended to provide
guidance for orderly change in accounting standards when needed. When
evidence indicates that information about an item that is more useful (relevant and
reliable) than information currently reported is available at a justifiable cost, it
should be included in financial statements.

    This Statement was adopted by the affirmative vote of six members of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board. Mr. March dissented.

      Mr. March dissents from this Statement because (a) it does not adopt
measurement concepts oriented toward what he believes is the most useful single
attribute for recognition purposes, the cash equivalent of recognized transactions
reduced by subsequent impairments or loss of service value—instead it suggests
selecting from several different attributes without providing sufficient guidance for
the selection process; (b) it identifies all nonowner changes in assets and liabilities
as comprehensive income and return on equity, thereby including in income,
incorrectly in his view, capital inputs from nonowners, unrealized gains from price
changes, amounts that should be deducted to maintain capital in real terms, and
foreign currency translation adjustments; (c) it uses a concept of income that is
fundamentally based on measurements of assets, liabilities, and changes in them,
rather than adopting the Statement’s concept of earnings as the definition of
income; and (d) it fails to provide sufficient guidance for initial recognition and
derecognition of assets and liabilities.
      Mr. March would not, in general, recognize increases in prices of assets and
decreases in prices of liabilities before they are realized. He believes present
measurement practice can be characterized as largely using a single attribute, the
cash equivalent of recognized transactions reduced by subsequent impairments
or loss of service value, and that present practices that recognize revenues or
gains from changes in prices before realization, such as the uses of current market



                                                                                    45
values and net realizable values cited in paragraphs 67(c) and (d) and 69, are
exceptions to the general use of that single attribute. Mr. March is concerned that
the guidance in paragraph 90 would permit, and perhaps point toward, more
recognition of changes in current prices before realization. He believes that
income, recognition, and measurement concepts based largely on the single
attribute that he proposes are most relevant to reporting capital committed,
performance, and the investment and realization of resources.
      Mr. March objects to comprehensive income, defined in Concepts Statement
3 and confirmed in this Statement, as a concept of income because it includes all
recognized changes (including price changes) in assets and liabilities other than
investments by owners and distributions to owners. He would exclude from
income, and include in the amount of capital to be maintained (in addition to
transactions with owners), what he would consider to be direct capital inputs to the
enterprise from nonowner sources. Those include governmental and other capital
contributions or grants and capital arising in reorganizations, recapitalizations, and
extinguishments or restatements of debt capital.
      Mr. March would also require that income must first deduct a provision for
maintenance of capital in real terms (adjusted for changes in purchasing power of
money over time, paragraphs 71–72). He believes that is necessary to avoid
reporting a return of capital as income. Complex implementation should not be
necessary to provide for the erosion of capital caused by the effects of inflation on
the unit of measure. A “rubber yardstick” is a poor measuring tool. Mr. March would
also exclude from income foreign currency translation adjustments (excluded from
earnings but included in comprehensive income by paragraph 42(b)), which he
believes are analogous to provisions for maintenance of capital in real terms.
      The description of earnings (paragraphs 33–38) and the guidance for applying
recognition criteria to components of earnings (paragraphs 78–87) is consistent
with Mr. March’s view that income should measure performance and that
performance flows primarily from an entity’s fulfillment of the terms of its
transactions with outside entities that result in revenues, other proceeds on
resource dispositions (gains), costs (expenses) associated with those revenues
and proceeds, and losses sustained. However, Mr. March believes that those
concepts are fundamental and should be embodied in definitions of the elements
of financial statements and in basic income recognition criteria rather than basing
income on measurements of assets, liabilities, and changes in them.
      Disregarding the foregoing objections, Mr. March believes this Statement
offers insufficient guidance for the near-term future work of the Board. To be useful,
it needs to be supplemented with more specific guidance for selecting
measurement attributes for specific assets, liabilities, and transactions and for
deciding when the criteria require recognition or derecognition of an asset or a
liability.




46
Members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board:

            Donald J. Kirk, Chairman
            Frank E. Block
            Victor H. Brown
            Raymond C. Lauver
            John W. March
            David Mosso
            Robert T. Sprouse




                                                       47
Appendix

BACKGROUND INFORMATION
92. The Board’s study of recognition and measurement concepts has spanned
several years. The need to develop those concepts was identified early in the
conceptual framework project, and the first FASB Concepts Statement, Objectives
of Financial Reporting by Business Enterprises, listed them among several
separate matters to be covered:

          . . . Later Statements are expected to cover the elements of financial
     statements and their recognition, measurement, and display . . . , criteria
     for distinguishing information to be included in financial statements from
     that which should be provided by other means of financial reporting, and
     criteria for evaluating and selecting accounting information (qualitative
     characteristics). [paragraph 2].

93. During that period, three FASB Research Reports,56 a Discussion
Memorandum,57 a concepts Statement,58 and an Exposure Draft59 have dealt in
whole or in part with recognition and measurement matters, and the Board has
discussed those matters extensively.
94. The once-separate projects on recognition and on measurement were
combined, principally because in the Board’s view certain recognition questions,
which are among the most important to be dealt with, are so closely related to
measurement issues that it is not productive to discuss them separately. For
example, the question of whether the appropriate attribute to measure a particular
item is a past exchange price or a current exchange price is not easily separable
from the question of whether events such as price changes should be recognized.
95. The Board issued an Exposure Draft, Recognition and Measurement in
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, on December 30, 1983 and
received 104 letters of comment on it.
96. The changes made to the Exposure Draft were largely in response to
suggestions in those comment letters and are intended to improve the clarity and

56
  Recognition of Contractual Rights and Obligations: An Exploratory Study of Conceptual
Issues, by Yuji Ijiri, December 1980; Survey of Present Practices in Recognizing Revenues,
Expenses, Gains, and Losses, by Henry R. Jaenicke, January 1981; and Recognition in
Financial Statements: Underlying Concepts and Practical Conventions, by L. Todd Johnson
and Reed K. Storey, July 1982.
57
  FASB Discussion Memorandum, Conceptual Framework for Financial Accounting and
Reporting: Elements of Financial Statements and Their Measurement, December 2, 1976,
Part III.
58
  FASB Concepts Statement No. 3, Elements of Financial Statements of Business
Enterprises, pars. 16 and 17, 37–43, and 74–89.
59
  FASB Exposure Draft, Reporting Income, Cash Flows, and Financial Position of Business
Enterprises, November 1981, pars. 13–16 and elsewhere. This Statement supersedes that
Exposure Draft.



48
organization of the ideas presented in the Exposure Draft. The Board believes that
the substance of this Statement is not significantly changed from the Exposure
Draft. Noteworthy changes made and changes suggested but not made are
discussed below.
97. The discussion of financial statements, financial reporting, and recognition in
paragraphs 5–12 has been expanded and reorganized in response to comments
that the status of notes, supplementary information, and other means of financial
reporting outside of financial statements (all of which are outside the scope of this
concepts Statement) was unclear.
98. The term full set of financial statements has been used in paragraph 13 and
elsewhere in response to comments that complete set, the term used in the
Exposure Draft, implied that no further information beyond the listed financial
statements was needed and to comments that complete set had been used in
some standards in a different way.
99. A number of respondents inferred from the discussion of cash flow
statements in the Exposure Draft that the Board had decided one or more specific
issues about cash flow reporting. Those issues include the direct and indirect
methods of presentation; whether or not “cash” should include equivalents to cash
and, if so, what instruments qualify; whether or not the nonmonetary transactions
currently reported in statements of changes in financial position should appear in
cash flow statements; and the definitions of cash provided by (or used for)
operations, financing activities, and investing activities. Those and other specific
cash flow statement issues mentioned by respondents are beyond the scope of
this concepts Statement. The discussion of the statement of cash flows was
revised to emphasize that.
100. Many respondents criticized the term comprehensive income and some
criticized the term earnings as unwarranted innovations likely to cause confusion
and legal difficulties. Those terms are not new. They were first used in their present
senses in Concepts Statement 3, in which the Board defined comprehensive
income as an element of financial statements and reserved the term earnings for
possible later use to designate a component part of comprehensive income. This
Statement carries forward the concept of comprehensive income and describes a
concept for earnings. The Board retained the idea of two separate measures both
to reflect present practice for the items discussed in paragraph 42(b) and to allow
for the possibility that future standards may recognize some items, for example,
the cumulative accounting adjustments discussed in paragraph 42(a), in
comprehensive income but not in earnings.
101. The Board explored the alternative terms for comprehensive income and
earnings suggested by respondents, as well as other possibilities suggested by its
staff, but concluded that the other terms had disadvantages greater than those
attaching to the terms originally selected. The Statement was revised to indicate
that the Board anticipates that, as with net income in present practice, a variety of
terms will be used in future financial statements as names for earnings (for
example, net income, profit, or net loss) and for comprehensive income (for
example, total nonowner changes in equity or comprehensive loss).



                                                                                   49
102. Some respondents urged the Board to clarify the concept of earnings. The
discussion in paragraphs 36–38, the table in paragraph 44, and footnote 26 have
been rewritten to explain more fully what the Board intended.
103. The materiality threshold for recognition, implicit in the conceptual
framework, has been made explicit in paragraph 63 at the suggestion of several
respondents. Some respondents suggested that materiality and cost-benefit
considerations should be fundamental recognition criteria. No change was made
because the Board believes that, while those considerations affect the application
of the criteria, they are different in character from the four fundamental recognition
criteria.
104. Several respondents urged the Board to include the question of the monetary
unit or measurement scale within the scope of the Statement. The Exposure Draft
described present practice as using nominal units of money but left the unit of
measure outside its scope. The Board clarified the matter by indicating in
paragraph 72 that it expects that nominal units of money will continue to be used
to measure items recognized in financial statements.
105. The discussion of measurement has been expanded, in response to the
suggestions of several respondents, to explain and illustrate the different attributes
more fully and to discuss why different attributes are needed to describe present
practice and are expected to continue to be used to measure items in financial
statements.
106. Some respondents expressed concern that the guidance in paragraph 84(e)
(concerning circumstances under which revenue or gain may be recognized at
completion of production or when prices of assets change) and the guidance in
paragraph 87 (concerning recognition of losses when it becomes evident that
assets have been reduced or eliminated or liabilities incurred or increased without
associated benefits) meant significant change from present practice. Those
paragraphs describe concepts that the Board believes underlie many current
practices and standards, just as do the other parts of the guidance for recognition
of components of earnings. They have been retained and clarified.
107. Several respondents urged the Board to address in this Statement certain
specific recognition and measurement issues including definitive guidance for
recognition of contracts that are fully executory (that is, contracts as to which
neither party has as yet carried out any part of its obligations, which are generally
not recognized in present practice) and selection of measurement attributes for
particular assets and liabilities. Those issues have long been, and remain,
unresolved on a general basis. As noted in the introductory statement to this and
earlier concepts Statements (page 21), establishment of objectives and
identification of fundamental concepts will not directly solve specific financial
accounting and reporting problems. Rather, objectives give direction, and
concepts are tools for solving problems.
108. The Board and others who use this Statement will be guided and aided by
the concepts it sets forth, but judgments, based on the particular circumstances of
each case, will continue to play a major role in solving problems of recognition and




50
measurement in financial statements. The Board believes that further development
of recognition, measurement, and display matters will occur as the concepts are
applied at the standards level.




                                                                             51
Summary Index of Concepts Defined or Discussed

                                                                                                        Paragraph
                                                                                                         Numbers

Articulation .......................................................................................... 5, 12, 23, 45
Attributes measured .................................................. 66–70, footnote 42, 105, 107
Capital maintenance......................................................................................45–48
Cash flow, statement of ............................................................... 13, 24, 52–54, 99
Comprehensive income......................................... 13, 24, 30–32, 39–44, 100–101
Consumption of benefit .......................................................................................86
Cumulative accounting adjustments ...................................................... 42–44, 100
Current market value .....................................................................................67, 69
Current prices ......................................................................................................90
Current (replacement) cost............................................................................67, 69
Definitions .....................................................................................................63–64
Distributions to owners, statement of ................................................ 13, 24, 55–57
Earned...........................................................................................................83–84
Earnings .................................................... 13, 24, 30–38, 42–44, 49–51, 100–102
Expenses ......................................................................................................85–87
Financial flexibility ........................................................................... 24, footnote 13
Financial position, statement of ......................................................... 13, 24, 26–30
Financial statements ................................................................................. 5–57, 97
Full set of financial statements ......................................................................13, 98
Gains .............................................................................................................83–84
Guidance for components of earnings................................................... 78–87, 106
Historical cost ................................................................................................67–69
Investments by owners, statement of ................................................ 13, 24, 55–57
Liquidity ........................................................................................... 24, footnote 13
Losses ................................................................................................... 85–87, 106
Loss of benefit .....................................................................................................87
Measurability ........................................................................................... 63, 65–72
Net realizable (settlement) value .........................................................................67
Notes to financial statements .................................................... 7–9, footnote 4, 97
Other means of financial reporting ........................................................ 7-9, 92, 97
Other nonowner changes in equity ............................................ 42–44, footnote 27
Present value ......................................................................................................67
Realized and realizable ............................................................. 83–84, footnote 50
Recognition ............................................................................. 6–7, 58, 94, 97, 108
Recognition criteria...................................................................................... 63, 103
Relevance ............................................................................................... 63, 73–74
Reliability .................................................................................................63, 75–77
Revenues ......................................................................................................83–84
Supplementary information .........................................................................7–9, 97
Unit of measure ..................................................................................... 71–72, 104




52
Appendix C: Amendments to the Conceptual
Framework for Financial Reporting
C1. Concepts Statement 8 and FASB Concepts Statement No. 7, Using Cash Flow
Information and Present Value in Accounting Measurements, are amended as
described in paragraphs C2–C8. Added text is underlined, and deleted text is
struck out.


Amendments to Chapter 4, Elements of Financial
Statements, of Concepts Statement 8
C2. Amend footnote 1 of paragraph E2 as follows:
    1Decisions about recognizing, measuring, and displaying elements of financial

    statements depend on evaluations such as what information is most relevant
    for investment, credit, and other resource allocation decisions and whether
    the information is reliable enough to be trusted. Other significant evaluations
    of that information involve its comparability with information about other
    periods or other entities, its materiality, and whether the benefits of providing
    it exceed the costs. Those matters are discussed in Chapter 3, Qualitative
    Characteristics of Useful Information, and Chapter 5, Recognition and
    Derecognition, of this FASB Concepts Statement No. 8, Conceptual
    Framework for Financial Reporting, and recognition criteria and guidance for
    business entities are set forth in FASB Concepts Statement No. 5,
    Recognition and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business
    Enterprises.

Amendments to Chapter 7, Presentation, of Concepts
Statement 8
C3. Amend footnote 4 of paragraph PR12 as follows:
    4Recognition criteria are in FASB Concepts Statement No. 5, Recognition and

    Measurement in Financial Statements of Business EnterprisesChapter 5,
    Recognition and Derecognition, of this Concepts Statement.

Amendments to Chapter 8, Notes to Financial Statements,
of Concepts Statement 8
C4. Amend footnote 1 of paragraph D2 as follows:




                                                                                  53
     1Definitionsof elements and recognition criteria are in FASB Concepts
     Statements No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements, and No. 5, Recognition
     and Measurement in Financial Statements of Business EnterprisesChapter 4,
     Elements of Financial Statements, and Chapter 5, Recognition and
     Derecognition, of this Concepts Statement, respectively.

C5. Amend paragraph D5 and its related footnote 2 as follows:

     D5. FASB Concepts Statement No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in
     Financial Statements of Business Enterprises,2 identifies in general terms the
     purpose of notes to financial statements. Paragraph 7 states:
     Although financial statements have essentially the same objectives as
     financial reporting,… some useful information is better provided by financial
     statements and some is better provided, or can only be provided, by notes to
     financial statements or by supplementary information …:or other means of
     financial reporting. a. Information disclosed in notes or parenthetically on the
     face of financial statements… amplifies or explains information recognized in
     the financial statements. [Footnote references omitted.]

     2
      Although the recognition criteria and measurement attributes discussed in Concepts
     Statement 5 are intended to apply specifically to business enterprises, the general
     discussion of financial statements and notes also is applicable to not-for-profit
     organizations and employee benefit plans.

C6. Amend paragraph D6 as follows:

     D6. According to paragraph 6 of Concepts Statement 5RD3 of Chapter 5,
     Recognition and Derecognition, of this Concepts Statement, recognition is
     defined as:

               … the process of formally recording or incorporating an item ininto
           the financial statements of a reportingan entity as an asset, liability,
           equity, revenue, gain, expense, or the likeloss, or investment by or
           distribution to owners. Recognition includes depiction of an itemA
           recognized item is depicted in both words and numbers, with the
           amount included in the totals of the financial statementsstatement
           totals.

C7. Amend footnote 3 of paragraph D7 as follows:
     3In some cases, as indicated in the quote from Concepts Statement 5 in
     paragraph D5, an entity has a choice of providing information in notes or
     parenthetically on the face of financial statements. For convenience and ease
     of reading, this chapter specifically refers only to notes, but the concepts
     discussed also apply to information disclosed parenthetically.




54
Amendments to Concepts Statement 7
C8. Amend paragraph 12 as follows:

    12. This Statement addresses measurement issues and does not address
    recognition questions. Paragraph 6 of Concepts Statement 5RD3 of Chapter
    5, Recognition and Derecognition, of FASB Concepts Statement No. 8,
    Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting, defines recognition in the
    following terms:

            Recognition is the process of formally recording or incorporating
        an item ininto the financial statements of a reportingan entity as an
        asset, liability, equity, revenue, gain, expense, loss, or the
        likeinvestment by or distribution to owners. Recognition includes
        depiction of an itemA recognized item is depicted in both words and
        numbers, with the amount included in the totals of the financial
        statementsstatement totals. For an asset or a liability, recognition
        involves recording not onlythe acquisition or incurrence of the item but
        alsoand later changes in the item (related to measurement)it,
        including changes that result in its removal from the financial
        statements (as addressed in paragraphs RD13 and RD14). [Footnote
        reference omitted.]Because recognition means the depiction of an
        item in both words and numbers, with the amount included in the totals
        of financial statements, disclosure of an amount by any other means
        is not recognition.




                                                                                   55
